NEWSWEEK Persp Registered The Cargo Plane by RAYMOND Loos ANGELES—The decision of Donald Nelson to authorize Henry J. Kaiser to build three giant cargo planes in collaboration with Howard Hughes seems to make a good deal of sense. The interest aroused by this news and by the long and informative discussions that preceded it has done a great deal to make people appreciate the value of large cargo-flying ships. The experi- mental work now authorized will teach us all much that will be useful in the war effort and in transportation after the war. It is obvious that when an entirely new design is contemplated it takes time to produce even experimental models. It is estimated by Mr. Kaiser and Mr. Hughes that the three will not 15 months, the second in 20 months and the third in 25 months. If it is then decided to put them into production, some months must elapse before they roll off the line. The public has been informed from time to time of quite understandable differences of opinion about the feasi- bility and desirability of building this type of plane at this time. One of the reasons for misunderstanding has been the fact that ideas as well as specific plans have been continually changing throughout the period of discussion. At all times, many complicated technical problems of management and engineer- ing have been involved. After wide discussion in Washington and elsewhere, a meeting was held here about four weeks ago between Mr. a WPB representative and a committee of three leaders in the air- plane industry. This committee was acting upon a suggestion of the WPB to talk the matter over with Mr. Kaiser and to report on their findings and con- clusions. No specific plan came out of the meeting. This was not because the industry itself was lacking in a desire to cooperate. It is the settled rule in the industry that any manufacturer will make available any plans, engineering ideas, advice and technical personnel at his disposal to any other manufacturer who actually has an order from the government to build planes. At that time Mr. Kaiser had no such order, and there was a good deal of uncertainty as to the plane that was to be built and ro be finished for two years—the first in Kaiser, SEPTEMBER 28, 1942 ective . S. Patent Office Question the organization which was to do the building. In these circumstances, it was urged that Mr. Kaiser give his unquestioned manufacturing ability to the mass pro- duction of some model already designed. But it seems that Mr. Kaiser thought it best to build a new plane. Leaders of the industry pointed out the great outlay of time and the requirements of MOLEY and labor needed for the development of an entirely new model. It is said that in the automobile industry a new model takes close to three years from the original idea to mass production. Some- thing of the same effort is required in the case of a new plane. To undertake critical materials, engineering personnel mass production of a new plane would draw heavily upon the strained re- sources of an already overburdened in- dustry. This apparently became clear not only to the industry but to the various authorities in the government. There is no disposition to deny that vastly bigger planes can be built than any that now exist, or to deny that they will fly and that*they will carry a lot of stuff. When a certain manufacturer was asked how big a cargo plane could be built, his answer was: “Just tell me how much land or water is available to take off from or to land in.” Such ques- tions as this, as well as the number and type of cargo planes that will be needed, are matters of strategy to be decided by the Army and the Navy. There is no reason now to assume that this war will have to be fought with the exact types of plane already in production. But it does seem likely that whatever is new or startling in the planes that will come off the production line for some time to come will be a modification and improvement of basic designs that now exist. “Leaders in the industry here and elsewhere have been stressing the im- portance of carriers for a long time, and point to the number of excellent cargo planes already in production. The cam- paign of Mr. Kaiser has heavily under- scored their importance. He can have the immense satisfaction of knowing that he has directed the nation’s atten- tion to the value of large carriers. Everyone will wish him well in his new project. ? NEWSWEEK Perspective U. S, Three Governorships by RAYMOND As we come to mid-October, two political conclusions are clear. One is a drift toward Republican candidates; the other is a prospective small vote. These two signs may or may not have something in common. My impression is that they are not related. The small vote will come from many contributing causes. First, a lot of people are in the Army and Navy. Second, a lot .more are too busy to think about politics. : An election is a sort of little war, and many vote merely to participate in a contest. Now a real war captures the spirit of contention in people. A great many people have moved because of their employment, and while a lot of these still have the technical qualifications for voting, they are in strange surroundings and the normal political pressures on them are gone. Many: thousands have moved from rural districts to cities and know little of urban registration.rules,-- These perfectly clear causes, , with, a number of additional ones, will account for a light vote. It is unnecessary to characterize it as apathy. The Republican drift is unmistakable (see Periscope Preview) . Vast numbers of people.are. dissatisfied with the con- duct of the war at home and abroad. The rubber debacle alone will lose the Administration countless votes. The President’s scolding of farmers has made no new city and labor votes but has lost him thousands in agri- cultural regions. The New Deal has led people to expect so much that they tend to blame it for every discomfort. In this off year, gubernatorial cam- ‘paigns are indicative of the trend. Within the month I have made some firsthand study in three widely sepa- rated states—New York, Kansas and California. In New York, a curious mix-up in party behavior is evident already. Bennett, who is a pretty un- inspiring candidate despite the popu- larity of his manager Farley, is stronger in upstate Republican New York than any candidate in years but weaker in the big city. As things look now, Dewey may come close to the un- precedented feat of carrying the city as a Republican. This creates an em- barrassment of sorts for both Dewey and Bennett. Dewey cannot attack the Roosevelt Administration vigorously for fear of losing the city. Bennett cannot . OCTOBER Patent Office MOLEY 1 talk much about the President for teal of losing support upstate. But Dewey | can afford to coast because, if the pol are correct, nothing short of the com. | mission of homicide or arson could lose him the election. Kansas is interesting this year. The Republicans had a spirited -primary contest. Senator Reed tried for the Republican nomination for governor on a crack-down-on-labor platform. He ran third. Aridrew Schoeppel, a clean-cut and respected lawyer. froma. small city { in Western Kahsas, won. He is opposed | 4 by William Burke, who has held various. appointive offices from Washington an q who ran and lost in 1940. It looks li an easy victory for Schoeppel. a There is real color in the Californ fight. Olson was elected in-1988 by a” most indiscriminate collection of rceg! “h —ham-and-eggers, labor, New Dealers, Sinclairites, single taxers and socialists, No one could~satisfy such a motley: following, and Olson has had a riotous” time for four years. His opponent, Earl” Warren, now Attorney General, im- 4 presses those who know him as a man’? of unique integrity and steadiness. He” was unopposed in i the Republican pri- | mary, and in the Democratic primary he ran Olson a rather close race. ~*~ 4a The sole appeal of Olson is his | devotion to the President. He made hay * when the Pregident visited California. | According to the announcement of the 4 Democratic Committee of Los Olson stuck to the distinguished visitor’ like a burr.in the mane of a lion. He was in the automobile with the Presi- | dent as they toured the plants in Los | Angeles and San Diego and visited | naval and marine establishments. They also visited an old mission. One cannot help speculating upon the meditations. of the two. as they contemplated the venerable beauty of San Juan Capis- ; trano. Surely their thoughts were far from the political campaign. Perhaps the President’s visit has saved Olson, ‘ but late reports still favor Warren. The election of Warren and Dewey | in the two big states on opposite sides | ‘of the country would be a considerable | return toward a political balance in ‘ this country, especially since there stretches between them an almost un- | cite ay olan apap ak. governors now in office. lationist,” however, House lowest opposition leaders Office Willkie Rep. isolationist was was of the war effort and is liked trusted by most Republican leaders. Will the country be more conserva- Yes, well on into the postwar The men thrown into the lime- are, in the main, middle-of-the- steady people. A lot of extremists coattail riders went down. This is not a flash in the pan. It a change in the national temper some time to come. What about Jim Farley’s future? An of the vote in the various shows that the defeat of his in New York can be ascribed to upturn against the Adminis- Throughout the nation, Farley continue to be respected and sup- by conservative Democrats, and may possibly see them seriously for the control of the party. Will the war effort be more vigorous prosecuted? Yes. The tonic effect of election will put zest into the in Congress, into industrial generally, and into the small and agricultural areas. Labor also and publicans, the of James whom league, office election Congress winning himself. the over. an. feuding ing,” Christian does the party, alike burden onstrate, Herald will be less confident of their The desire to win the war will, Public morale will be better be- the people have taken over the of morale-building themselves. its the wholeheartedly tions to they tory where. Is this all due to protest against the effort of the Administration? No. in part. It is the continuation of undercurrent that began in some sections of the Middle West as as 1936. It has grown in every since, until, as a result of this . Republican governors will hold in states with approximately three- of the population of the nation minority as have greatly increased representa- in Congress. This tide is not likely recede for a considerable time and it well go much farther. full the as play ties halted.” mand W. What about straw votes? Polls may useful in pointing out trends. But more accurate pre-election polls the by the less value they have as because voters are influenced Mayor cratic man them. The best commentators still it necessary to travel, to talk with reelect Albert Nash the Raymond observers on the spot and consider generally how current hap- are likely to affect voters. Poli- is still an art, not a science. & appeared NEWSWEEK and both were reelected. Fish, goes to his thirteenth term in the by the scant margin of 4,062 votes, of his career. He won despite the of President- Roosevelt and of his own party—Wendell L. and Gov.-elect Thomas E. Dewey. Clare E. Hoffman, an outstanding before Dec. 7, whose defeat earnestly desired by the New Deal, reelected in Michigan. But pre-Pearl Harbor interventionists fared well—Gov. Harold E. Stassen Sen. Joseph H. Ball, Minnesota Re- who were attacked bitterly in primary campaigns for their support Mr. Roosevelt before Dec. 7, and Sen. E. Murray, Montana Democrat, Sen. Burton K. Wheeler, his col- had accused of “trying to ride into on the coattails of war fever.” President Roosevelt’s comment on the was brief: he assumed the new would be as much in favor of the war as the Chief Executive He was expressing only part of consensus of commentators the country The mandate, it was agreed, was for end to inefficiency and bureaucratic in Washington. “It will be surpris- wrote Roscoe Drummond in The Science Monitor, “if the election not have a emaabeneng effect upon Administration.” As for its effect upon the Republican } commentators and GOP leaders © called upon the party to realize the of victory: let the party now dem- said the Republican New York Tribune, “that it has learned by blunders, and possesses the ability and bravery to support the war effort and to place in key posi- men sufficiently wise and farseeing take command in a national crisis. If do not give this proof . . . their vic- will be an empty success leading no- If they live up to their opportuni- leader. Announcing his retirement GOP National Chairman to give his time to Congressional duties, he said Republicans would “devote themselves Americans to winning the war and not politics.” their to power cannot be The attitude of the Republican com- was set forth soberly by Rep. Joseph Martin Jr. of Massachusetts, House There were three outstanding defeats in elections aside from the beatings taken candidates. The powerful machine of Frank Hague of Jersey City, Demo- boss of New Jersey and a vice chair- of the National Committee, failed to Sen. William H. Smathers over W. Hawkes, Republican. The Kelly- machine of Chicago was trounced by victory of Senator Brooks over Rep. S. McKeough. And Democrats march likely to quarrel through 1944 showrooms, you must wait until victory enjoy this superlative instrument. end by buying War Bonds! needs But you can prepare for the war's earlier your investment, Your country and you will building soundly for the future, when may want to purchase a home, a car, television set, or a Capehart. Your Capehart dealer also offers counsel on other musical requirements the selection of a piano, an organ, instruments, sheet music, recordings. Capehart Division of the Farnsworth vision & Radio Corporation, Ft. Wayne, - FARNSWORTH REPRODUCTION —™TELEVISION to be you a you . . . band The Tele- Ind. “The Engulfed Cathedral,” by Claude Debussy, painted for the Capehart Col- lection by Raymond Breinin. This im- pressionistic tone-poem tells the ancient Breton legend of the cathedral that rises from the sea. © Reprints of previous paintings are now available from your Capehart dealer at a modest charge. Or write to Capehart. © Capehart Early Georgian (illustrated below) with the time-proved record changer that turns the records over. Equipped for FM radio, NEWSWEEK Persp ective Registered + Wanted—Two by RAYMOND Both major parties are faced with the job of selecting a new chairman. The Republican National Committee meets on Dec. 7 to choose a successor to Joseph Martin Jr., who has served since 1940. No date has as yet been set for a Democratic Committee meeting, but those who follow politics closely look for its announcement within a month or so, when Edward J. Flynn, the present Democratic chairman, is expected to resign. With the restoration of a close balance in party strength, the choice of a new chairman in each case is not unim- portant. In fact, it may provide some clue to the political events of 1944. In the Democratic party the Presi- dent will dictate the decision. His problem will be only to make a selection from the rather scanty list of possibili- ties. But these facts are, of themselves, meaningful symptoms of the party organization’s state of health. It can hardly be said that there are any active candidates for the chairman’s job in the Democratic party. Post- master General Frank Walker might be drafted by the President, but he would _accept only with the greatest reluctance. Leo Crowley, Alien Property Custodian, is most frequently mentioned. Joseph E. Davies, former Ambassador to Moscow, and John W. McCormack, majority leader of the House, are possibilities. None stirs much enthusiasm. It will be many a day before another Farley is found. The bloom is simply off the job. Not much patronage remains to be given out, and the New Deal inner circle provides what political counsel the President needs. The fight for the chairmanship in the Republican party, on the other hand, suggests the vigor of the party’s hopes. So does the fact that so many prospective Presidential candidacies are in evidence. The GOP is feeling the oats of the November victory. Party insiders say the new chairman must be experienced in politics and must come from the Midwest or West. Circum- stances may alter these specifications, but now they seem pretty important. Most frequently mentioned is Werner W. Schroeder, national committeeman DECEMBER 7,'"1942 S. Patent Office Chairmen MOLEY of Illinois, who, since 1940, has presided over a sort of renaissance of Republican- ism in his state. He is pretty violently opposed by Willkie friends, however, because they say he is too close to the McCormick-Brooks people. This opposi- tion may turn the choice elsewhere. There is a strong call for Alf M. Landon, who is reluctant to serve. Other possibilities are national committeemen Harrison E. Spangler of Iowa, Ralph H. Cake of Oregon and Sinclair Weeks of Massachusetts. Likewise John Hollister of Ohio, former congressman and law partner of Senator Taft. The chances that the committee will go completely outside the party organization to select some well-known businessman are ex- ceedingly slim. After an insistent demand by Mr. Willkie a statement on foreign affairs was adopted at the April meeting of the Republican National Committee. This time there is little demand for statements of party policy. That is fortunate because the making of any resolution on national policy by the national committee is an impropriety. It has no legal power to bind the party. The convention, does that. The com- mittee’s job is to keep the national party alive between Presidential cam- paigns, to prepare for the convention and the campaign, to raise money, to conduct research on national affairs and to maintain contact with state and local organizations. Mr. Willkie’s influence in the forth- coming meeting will be of some im- portance. But it will not be decisive. The 1940 candidate will, it is said, con- trol not over a quarter of the 106 members. The rift between him and the ‘ party organization is now pretty deep. But arguments among Republicans, while troublesome, are not signs of weakness. In 1920 the Republican party emerged from years of internal conflict to win the election. In 19382, though the preconvention fight of the Democrats was bitter, they carried through tri- umphantly. The real test of the Re- publican party will be the performance of its 22 governors, it 209 members of the House and its $8 senators, not what its members say about each other. Perspective U.S. Registered Patent Light on an Old by Raymond Moley N wuHart history may call the great Stassen gaffe, the principal therein proposed to ignore the preferences of a great majority of Republican leaders and to present a ticket to please some people in the Republican Party, “in labor, minorities, and independents” and “the independent people at home, important portions of the popu- lation abroad, and the uncommitted nations in the world.” Only somewhat less befuddled are those who have been telling us for some years that Republicans should ignore their own party membership and prepare ticket and program to convert Demo- crats and to cozen “independents.” This conversion, ' ; ee popular these or perhaps reconversion. On the other hand, true masters of politics design political activity—all the printing and oratory, all the piety and wit—to inspire party members with confidence and to stir the sympathetic but lazy to get out and vote. strategy—very days with people who, while paying lip service to the President, would at- tack the Republican Party—assumes that there is a fixed number of Demo- crats and Republicans, with a decisive minority of so-called independents. The conclusion that they would have us draw is that the only way a candi- date on the Republican ticket can win is to look so much and talk so much like a “liberal” Democrat that voters will switch sides and elect him. This concept I have called “the myth of a static electorate.” The fallacy behind it is the idea that political action is concerned with INDEPENDENTS SCORNED The late Ed Flynn of the Bronx, up to the end F.D.R.’s most intimate po- litical mentor, told me back in the 1930s that his strategy and Mr. Roosevelt’s was to assume the loyalty of Democrats who had voted for the party before 1932 and to aim at peo- ple who had not been voting but who were radical in outlook. Flynn and Mr. Roosevelt scoffed at the idea of converting Republicans. They were people to attack, not flatter. Flynn scorned the idea of “independents.” I studied two British elections at firsthand, in 1950 and 1955, and talked with many professional workers in both parties in England, Scotland, Fraud a Office and Wales. The lasting lesson | learned was that those realists paid little attention to opposition voters, They used their resources to get out every sympathizer, and many needed plenty of prodding. The contest was a matter of efficiency, and since there were twice as many professional Con- servative agents, the victory went to that party. It was left to the theorists in London and Oxford to believe that speeches were decisive. “Independ- ents” over there are contemptuously known as “floaters.” So far as I know, Billy Graham is not trying to turn Catholics and Jews into Methodists and Baptists, but to get at the unaffiliated. He is much too wise to call the unwashed and un- saved “independent.” MARKET FOR VOTES In 1952 Stevenson received about 27 million votes, which is roughly the sum of Truman’s (1948) 24 million, Wallace’s and Thurmond’s (1948) 1 million each, and a million more new voters in old Democratic families. Mr. Eisenhower received Dewey’s 22 mil- lion plus some millions who had been conservatively inclined but in- different in 1948, plus a number of new voters. Except in the South, there were few conversions. While the 1952 vote was large, there were and are somewhere around 40 million eligibles who failed to vote. That is the market for votes where either party may find a major- ity. Those nonvoting eligibles are not “independent.” They are merely inac- tive. Republicans may confidently assume that more that half of them are inclined to conservatism. The people who are talking about a static electorate also say that, since Democratic candidates for the House received in 1952 more votes than Re- oublican candidates, the Republican Party is a permanent minority. They fail to add that there were 93 districts in which there were no contests and that 82 of them were Democratic. In all contested districts Republican can- didates were 3,282,000 votes ahead. Except in describing a single elec- tion, it is absurd to talk about minority or majority parties. The size of a party’s vote is whatever zeal and hard work can make it. —— Newsweek, August 13. 1956 Perspective Registered U.S. Patent A Matter of Loyalty by Raymond os ANGELES—In his Chicago accept- LE ance speech Adlai Stevenson said: “The truth is that President Eisenhower, cynically coveted as a candidate but ignored as a leader, is largely indebted to Democrats in Congress for what accomplishments he can claim.” The truth is in direct contradiction to this grave charge of disloyalty to the President against the Republican Party in Congress. Indeed, the candidate own charge by asserting, in the loose, fancy-free rhetoric which belies his in sixteen repetitions of the word “leadership,” that the President is no leader. We are therefore invited to believe that the Democrats in Congress have been following a ghostly nimbus. Also, Stevenson implies that he approves of the President's program. But self-contradictions are common is the pleasant adornment of capri- cious, disorderly. thinking. Let us ap- peal to the facts. The candidate made this charge of disloyalty on July 14, citing as au- thority the Congressional Quarterly. I challenged that private information service in this space under date of July 16, and my piece has been in- serted in the Congressional Record with corroborative materials from Sen- ators Schoeppel, Margaret Chase Smith, and others. Moley ROLL-CALL ANALYSIS The respective chairmen of the Re- publican Senate and Congressional Campaign Committees have inserted in the Congressional Record of Aug. 17 and Aug. 20 a complete analysis of all roll calls in both the 83rd and 84th Congresses. This represents a monumental job of research which can be checked and audited for accuracy. This analysis shows that after elim- inating from the total roll calls in the two Congresses items which were merely procedural and organizational and also others which were not in the President’s program, there were 675 with which we are evaluating Republican concerned in loyalty to the President. a On these, majority of Republicans in both houses in both Congresses opposed the President in 10 per cent of the cases. A majority of Democrats opposed the President in 47 per cent of those cases. Office The analysis also shows that in all Eisenhower issues in both houses, the Republicans supplied 59 per cent of all votes cast for the program, and the Democrats 41 per cent of those votes. — Putting it another way, the record shows that the Democrats supplied 71 per cent of all opposition votes and the Republicans only 29 per cent. There were 345 House and Senate roll calls—or 51 per cent of the 675 Eisenhower roll calls—on which a ma- jority of both parties were not united behind President Eisenhower's pro- gram. These include the 10 per cent of the roll calls in which a majority of Republicans were opposed to the President’s program. Yet even after in- cluding those, the Republicans sup- plied 75 per cent of all the favorable votes on those 345 roll calls, and the Democrats only 25 per cent. Of the opposition votes, the Democrats sup- plied 75 per cent, and the Republi- cans, 25 per cent. NATURE OF ISSUES Moreover, in the detailed informa- tion offered in the study concerning the nature of the issues in which some Democratic votes were necessary to win for the President, a _ very considerable proportion involved the - Eisenhower-Benson agricultural poli- cies and a conflicting farm program of the Democrats. Others had to do with spending items in which the President had the support of economy-minded Democrats. It comes with poor grace for the candidate of a party dedi-— cated to overturning the Eisenhower- Benson farm program and to more spending to claim credit for these. An examination of those roll calls in which a majority of Republicans supported and a majority of Demo- crats opposed the President shows that the President won in 75 per cent of the cases in the Republican 83rd Congress and in only 41 per cent of the cases in the Democratic 84th Con- gress. That forcefully illustrates why the President is asking for a Republi- can Congress. }/ aT This record of loyalty is certainly ° bright in contrast with the troubled relations between the President and his party in Congress in the second: Roosevelt term and in 81st and’ 82nd: Congresses in Truman’s years. Newsweek, September . 10, 1956 “i Perspective Registered U.S. Patent The Power to by Raymond Moley HAT canny maestro, James A. along says that of all the is- sues with which he hopes to elevate Adlai Stevenson to the White House, “big business” is the most valuable. And so _ the Stevenson-Kefauver theme is that the bigs are the deadly enemies of the smalls, driving some into bankruptcy and devouring others by mergers. The Eisenhower Admin- istration, they say, views that devas- tation with cold satisfaction. The Administration, says Adlai, has “the corporate mind” and is pushing all of us into the maw of “the concentrated power of finance and _ industry.” Kefauver is even more virulent. litical Education. The negative role of attack rests with the Stevenson-Kefauver team. The Finnegan-Butler plan leaves the job of capturing a Democratic Congress to the AFL-CIO Committee on Po- No doubt, if COPE achieves that, the Democratic organ- ization will permit the political arms of unions to propose the program. It is clear that after this campaign, in which “big business” has been the major issue, the proposals in Congress will be designed to punish and de- stroy big business by measures mainly in the field of taxation. For the New Deal long ago established taxation as the chief means of achieving eco- nomic and social reform. The so-called “liberals” in Congress, including that very large group which has been and will be elected by: the multitudinous ‘REFORM’ workers of COPE, will be determined to overhaul or repeal the Comprehensive Revenue Act of 1954. The AFL-CIO Resolution on Economic Issues, adopted by the first constitutional convention of the merged federations in December 1955, specified the program for which COPE will drive. First priority in tax cuts, it states, shall be given to reduction of excise taxes, an increase ir the individual income-tax exemp- ticns from the present level of $600, and a reduction of the 20 per cent rate for at least part of the first $2,000_ of taxable income. In corporation taxes, the resolution says, the present level of 52 per cent should be maintained for at least an- other year. Then there should be Office Destroy In addition, the AFL-CIO seems to favor the “progressive” corporation shift in the normal and surtax rates to ease the burden on sma!l corporations. Next, there should be a drive to close “loopholes” by repealing the small 1954 dividend relief, repealing the new depreciation provision of the 1954 act, abolishing income-splitting by husband and wife, “tightening” the capital-gains tax by lengthening the period of long-range gains and by in- creasing the rate considerably, tight- ening the estate- and gift-tax structure, and repealing the tax-exempt status of state and local bonds. principle in taxes. FALSE ANALOGY Congressman Patman has a bill all ready to accomplish the latter objec- tive. It would raise the surtax exemption from its present $25,000 to $100,000, and after that graduate the rates up to 75 per cent. Patman sup- ports his plan with a false analogy. He says that if there is to be a graduated tax on individual incomes there should be one on corporations. But our largest corporations are owned in consider- able part by small stockholders, and some little companies are owned by very rich people. Our five largest cor- porations have 3 million stockholders. Under such a graduated corpora- tion tax there would be restriction of growth, higher prices for products, and the breakup of large companies. The time for business management to meet this sort of threat is here and now. a a Management must take a lesson from COPE and provide manpower in the precincts to help elect members of Congress who have been unwilling to bow their heads to a single interest such as COPE. Chief Justice Marshall, borrowing a sentence from Daniel Webster, said: “The power to tax involves the power to destroy.” If under the leadership of COPE, victorious in the coming elec- tion, the Congress sets to work to make good on the reckless, irrespon- sible, vindictive attacks of Stevenson- Kefauver, the smalls as well as the bigs may well be destroyed. Higher costs, higher prices, paralysis of in- vestment and technological progress, bankruptcy, more mergers, and fewer jobs may well be the harvest. — Newsweek, October 22, 1956/ Perspective Registered U.S Patent While Time by Raymond T May be of passing interest to I reader of this piece that since the issue of April 2 I have made only passing reference or two in these essays to Adlai Stevenson or his col- laborator, Estes Kefauver. At that time, under the title “Fragile States- man,” it seemed that I had written all that need be said. Among other things, there was this sentence: “It was probably destined, when nature wove together the strands that be- came the personality of Adlai Stevenson, that ‘at some disputed bar- ricade’ his rendezvous would be not with glory but with bitter frustration.” Perhaps that is where, on the eve of the election, we should leave the subject. My neglect of the Democratic can- didate was not merely because of feeling that he lacked what it took, but also because there have been two parties of opposition in this cam- paign—the Stevenson-Kefauver front and the vastly more concentrated and portentous drive of an organized effort by the AFL-CIO Committee on Po- litical Education and its egghead shadow, the ADA, to elect members of Congress. The nominal party affili- ation of such members would Democratic, but their obligation would be to COPE. As it seems now, the name Stevenson will fade back among those shadows in which there lives his grandfather together with James Middleton Cox and Alton Brooks Parker. If by chance he es- capes their fate, his obligation will be due to strength borrowed from local candidates with strong organiza- tions and coattails broad enough sustain the burden of his inadequacy. DEMOCRATIC FUTURE There is more of Walter Reuther in the future of the Democratic Party than of any of the characters now re- garded as its official ornaments. For Reuther and his associates have what none of them have—neither senators nor governors nor local statesmen importance: A powerful organization limited by no state lines, with ten- tacles over the nation, and flush with money and captive workers. In eight articles in this space I have attempted to describe the potential of COPE, its methods and objectives, Office Remains Moley a a a be to ¥. and the extent to which it has in- fused itself into the soft, pervious organism that is the Democratic Party in the states. I have shown how in the 37 states outside the South Demo- cratic senators have toed the COPE line to the extent of 73 per cent, while members of the House have made an 80 per cent score. Even such allegedly independent figures as Kennedy of Massachusetts and Pastore of Rhode Island deviated only to vote against 90 per cent parity, a matter of no importance to their constituents. The circumstance that impends, who- ever wins the Presidency, is the ultimate transformation of the Demo- cratic Party into a British-model So- cialist-labor party. In short, what happened to the Liberal: Party in Britain 30 years ago is the fate that almost certainly lies in the future of the party of Jefferson and Wilson. DISFRANCHISED There will be plenty of time after the election to discuss the necessity of reconstructing the Republican Party to provide a genuine alterna- tive to this new party. My concern here, with only a few days before election, is to underline the extreme importance, despite the deadly opiate of confidence, of getting out the vote for conservative candidates for the House and Senate and for the State Legislatures. For every vote cast for them is not only another vote for the national ticket but an assist for candi- dates who are fighting an uneven contest with little organized support on their side. It is true that millions of potential voters are not registered and cannot vote at the election. But the figures for 1952 show that 14,680,000 regis- of tered voters failed to cast a ballot on Election Day. In some states the ab- senteeism was appalling. In California there were 856,000; in Illinois, 822,000; in Missouri, 607,000; in New York, 695,000; in Ohio, 1,299,000; in Texas, 261,000; in Wisconsin, 592,000. This year these numbers will be larger. They can easily spell the dif- ference between victory and defeut for dozens of candidates. There is stil! time to see that these millions of Americans do not deliberately franchise themselves. dis- — Newsweek, November 5, 1956 Perspective U.S. Patent Registered Ike’s Fateful by Raymond Moley HORTLY after the election, the AP quoted some anonymous bureau- crat to the effect that at “The Vice Presidential and Cabinet” level there would now be “a long, hard look” at the Administration’s power policies. This has been interpreted to mean that because of the defeat of Re- publican candidates for the Senate in Oregon, Washington, and Idaho the Administration may scuttle its partnership policy and favor heavy spending for Federal projects in those states. Interior Secretary Seaton has since asserted that there is no reason “to inflict the whole burden of financ- ing those projects on the Federal government whenever and wherever non-Federal interests are willing to assume a share.” This will be a major test for a Presi- dent whose popular majority should provide an unparalleled opportunity to protect the Treasury and the tax- payers of all states from minority pres- sures. The ultimate decision of the President will be a measure of the depth of his convictions, the strength of his will to resist pressures from even his close associates, and his in- terest in relieving the pressure of tax- ation on all Americans—East, South, There is plenty of evidence that the people of the Northwest are not opposed EVIDENCE West, and North. Two questions arise: Did the voters in the three states concerned really oppose the partner- ship policy? Whether they did or did not, is it fair and just to compel all taxpayers to meet the demands of three states for expenditures which private investors are willing to assume? to private investors sharing the burden of developing hydroelec- tric power in the Columbia Basin. While Senator Neuberger was being elected in Oregon in 1954, the voters of three Oregon counties voted against the establishment of public-utility dis- tricts. Not a single referendum in any county in Oregon since 1940 has voted for public power. During the recent campaign a poll taken in Washington indicated a 3-to-1 preference for partnership. In another survey, in the state of Oregon, power voters only fifth among listed public six issues. Office Choice tion Day. In Montana, however, a most vociferous public-power advo- cate was defeated for governor. OF NATIONAL INTEREST But the case for local and private participation in further hydroelectric projects in the Northwest should not rest merely upon the preferences of the states immediately concerned. There is no valid reason in morals or national policy why the 40-odd other states of the union should be taxed for the Northwest when there is avail- able plenty of private investors’ capital to bear a share. Industry will be the lure of subsidized Federal power. Vast sums have already been spent by the Federal government in the Columbia Basin. Approximately 40 per cent of the money spent by Congress for hydroelectric projects in the past ten years has gone to the Northwest. It has averaged $150 million a year. Twice that amount annually will be needed to provide an adequate sup- ply of power in that region. It is simply not possible to expect Congress to grant any such sums to a few states, because indoctrinated, and mobilized on Elec- drawn from the East and Midwest by What has really happened has been the penetration and invigoration of the Democratic Party in both Oregon and Washington by the political ma- chines of labor unions. There was also the introduction into the Idaho cam- paign of Eastern money to defeat Senator Welker. In Oregon there were large sums of labor-union money plus workers from outside the state to re-elect Morse. In Washington the thousands of workers in and around Hanford and in Seattle and Tacoma were thoroughly organized, politically Oregon, Washington, and Idaho combined pay less than 3 per cent of Federal income taxes. The complaint of the generality of the nation’s taxpayers gains additional strength when it is noted that, unlike the impoverished 1930s when Bonne- ville and Grand Coulee were built, there is adequate money now avail- able from private investors. If there is to be “a long, hard look’ at the Eisenhower partnership policy, the interests of all states, as well as the Northwest, should be brought within the range of vision. — Newsweek, December 10, 1956 ; ) Perspective Registered Henry Gets by Raymond ENRY was planting some gera- H niums. It was a way of usefully employing his body while his mind was reaching a decision. Later there would be two hours before bedtime. At supper he had said he might go over and: discuss with a neighbor the behavior of another neighbor’s chick- ens. There was also a report for the office he had to work on. There was also a good Western at 8:30. His wife suggested the planting while he was -making up his mind. The gate opened and a brisk young man came in. He showed Henry a card saying he was John Pollsum of the Goofy Research Institute. He said: “We are conducting a Presidential opinion poll and would like to have your cooperation.” Henry nodded his head reflectively. Pollsum whipped out a aailaall, saying: “First I would like to have “Mr. one and commit Pollsum card. preferences?” Henry, against Stevenson against Nixon. ning little Pollsum in his “good-by” gate Henry entered the Western. MORAL your economic status, your social class Henry as it were.” Henry didn’t understand. “Your standing in society, in the economic order.” “I guess all right. I don’t make any enemies.” After noting something in the book, Pollsum went on: “What is your party affiliation? Democratic, Repub- lican, or independent?” “Is there an independent party? Who’s running on that?” “J don’t mean that. I mean you, for example.” “Oh! I don’t want to run for any- thing. They wouldn't like it at the office. All that notoriety.” “I mean your preference.” “How on earth can I prefer it if it isn’t a party?” “What party do you generally sup- port at the polls?” - “I don’t vote generally. Something’s always coming up. And I never really kept track.” “Have you at any time voted Democratic?” “I voted for Roosevelt once. I guess he was running against a fel- low named London.” “Did you vote for Eisenhower?” “Once. But he wasn’t in a party. He was like Washington or Lincoln.” “Tl put you down as an independ- ent.” Noting in book. “I wouldn't want that to get out in the office.” Henry looked worried. other, are in is independent tion, what They their social unsound of hidden They consider ask work America But cal writers that and is to promises Democratic-union tion. ers, granted few.” that greater Few Henry lose Democratic-union nore hopelessly Henry the future cp ~ aeial U.S. Patent Office Polled Moley Banks says our motto is all for one for all. I don’t want to myself.” handed Henry a _ larger “Will you please mark your reading aloud: “Kennedy Nixon. Johnson against Nixon. against Nixon. Humphrey Nixon. Symington against Why are all these fellows run- against one man? Isn't that a unfair?” noted after “independent” book: “Don’t know.” He said and moved toward the and across the street. looked at his watch, slowly the house, and turned on OF THE STORY isn’t very sharp, but he and smarter Henrys who fail to vote the tens of millions. But none by intellectual convic- nor independent government of interest in is doing to him. have their homes, their savings, insurance, and their equity in security. They suffer from an dollar. They pay hundreds taxes on what they buy. pay and they pray. They don’t themselves a problem. They no pity: or pious sentiment. They aR Ce and save and invest, and keep productive and strong. pollsters and professional politi- tell Republican candidates the Henrys are “independents” that the way to get them to vote identify Republicanism with the and policies of the liberal labor-ADA coali- Thus they would forsake all oth- taking loyal party members for and ending in “we happy NS i ERTS eA ERO i 2S eS lle ppicinn ae But 1940, 1944, and 1948 prove the greater the identification, the will be the abstention. Republican workers call on and explain what he has to from profligate government. And labor workers ig- him because they consider him bourgeois. is forgotten. But he holds key to a creative, conservative for all of us. Newsweek, May 9, 1960 |— Perspective Registered Determinism’s by N AN interview on our activity in | space, an executive of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration was asked why it should be necessary to send a man out there when we have such wonderful instruments. He answered: “Only a man can find what we are not looking for; an instrument can find only what we think is there.” This sentence of his throws a great light on a conflict in ideas that has been raging for the century since Marx and Darwin. There were those who believed that the seminal writings of these men unlocked an entirely new door to an interpretation of man and his place in the world. Their interpretation of science REFORMERS’ in history, politics, and nature was that man is a mere item in the mass of natural forces in the material world and uni- verse. His personality, they held, was a composite of inherited instincts and of environmental influences. He had no free will and was without per- sonal responsibility. In history, the application of this determinism was so-called economic interpretation. The American Revo- lution thus became a squabble over taxes. The Constitution was made by men who sought protection for their securities and land. The two parties were mere congregations of debtors on one side and creditors on the other. In jurisprudence, the ancient con- cept of the “Reign of Law” was re- jected. Justice should be applied in accordance with what the judge be- lieved to be justified by sociology and psychology. In court, the man’s en- vironment was judged, not the culprit. DESTINY In politics, where determinism did its crowning mischief, a candidate or party merely added up the specific material yearnings of each of a group of minorities and made a total ma- jority miscalled the general welfare. Elections thus became auctions of items of interest only to men’s stom- achs and purses. Notable, even great men taught determinism as a tool to move human behavior. But what they properly con- ceived to be a hint concerning human behavior, their lesser followers seized upon as a complete answer. A tool became a key. The sorcerer’s appren- U.S. Patent Raymond Office Evil End Moley tices knew how to turn on the water, but not how to control it. Thus the melancholy destiny of reformers. Keynes said: Turn on more govern- ment spending in depression; turn it off in recovery. But politics thought differently. The stimulant became food. Spending became a means to eternally accelerated growth. Even Marx is distorted by Com- munism. Politicians cannot natural determinism. wait for They must use chicane, force, and brutality to hurry along the end of capitalism. The plans of the masters call for moves forward, backward, and sideways on the chess- board of life, with men’s lives and liberty as pawns in the operation. Who is Mr. K to talk about the Presi- dent’s responsibility? Personal respon- sibility has no place in the doctrine K practices. For individual responsibility requires liberty to act and choose. And even K is responsible to the mas- ter plan—impersonal, ruthless, inexo- rable—in which he, too, is a pawn. ‘RESPONSIBLE FREEDOM’ The world is menaced by the con- sequences of an acceptance of deter- minism, by a blind acceptance of the implications of science as a weapon to destroy liberty everywhere. It is the scientists here whe have uttered the most eloquent warnings against the acceptance of scientific determinism. For they know the limits of their quest and the need for free- dom in the welding of the tools for a better civilization. Witness Vannevar Bush’s warning to “preserve the re- sourcefulness and initiative of free- dom, and further the urge to create, with no stifling regimentation or deadening mediocrity.” Or Arthur H. Compton, who says this of what he calls “responsible freedom”: “I have learned from this experience [the atomic quest] the effectiveness of free men who are agreed upon one com- mon purpose. The harmony comes as each sees and chooses the part he can do best toward the attainment of the desired end.” That end, as I understand him, is the use of science not as an end in itself, but as a means to the mainte- nance of the individual’s freedom of choice in a world in which all liberty is living under a mortal threat. Newsweek, June 6, 1960 Perspective Lawmaking O CLAIM that this resumption of the final session of the 86th Con- gress is necessary is a monstrous fraud. The Senate leadership, delib- erately or by acquiescence, permitted ‘a slowdown in May and June. To pass legislation in the dog days for political purposes is to put political advantage above a sacred public responsibility. For the intention is either to present strident minority groups with hand- outs from the Federal revenue or to force a President with a will and conscience to be pilloried by his ve- toes in September and October as man callous.to the needs of the poor, the ill, the elderly, and to the neces- sary public services of the nation. The dog days, according to Webster, are a time of “malignant influences.” The phrase is apt. Let us consider one subject listed for action in this period—medical care for the elderly. It may be taken for granted that the Democratic majority is intent upon carrying out the terms of the party platform on this subject: “We shall provide medical-care bene- fits for the aged as part of the time-tested social-security insurance system. We reject any proposal which would require such citizens to submit to the indignity of a means test.” ‘POINT OF MADNESS’ The Republican platform would allow for optional purchase of private insurance. and provide Federal assist- ance grants to the states for those who need help. It recognizes that . give to all without regard to need would be financial insanity. For no one knows how many would participate a free scheme for all. We do know, however, who that to limit assistance recipients of social-security benefits would give to many who do not need help and omit many who do. For the Democratic platform to call social security (OASI) “insurance” wrong. “Insurance” was never used in the original Social Security Act. It has been judged by the Supreme Court to be a gratuity, not the pay- ment of an equity in insurance. Those getting benefits paid out of the earnings those below retirement age and their employers. The income to the so-called trust receive payments are Registered U.S. Patent Office in Dog Days by Raymond Moley fund is not enough to meet the outgo. The fund could be headed for bank- ruptcy, and all that those who will have paid into it for years can rely upon is a grant by Congress from gen- © eral revenues or from a big increase in the present rate of tax. To load health onto the burden—that is to make OASI into-OASHI—would, ac- cording to William R. Williamson, who used to be chief consulting actu- ary for the system, carry “fiscal irresponsibility to the point of mad- ness.” It is a conservative estimate that OASI plus health “insurance” a would shortly cost 20 per cent of the first $4,800 of payroll. to in to is LEGISLATING IN DARK The enormous increase in tax on employers would obviously be passed on to consumers in inflationary prices and would be a powerful force in pricing the United States still further out of the world market. To enact the Forand bill in any modified form would be legislating in the dark. I have read laboriously hun- dreds of pages of hearings and other literature on the subject and I cannot find that anyone, in either Congress or the Administration, knows how many people would need such help or has any idea of what it would cost. It is further evident that no one in the government has fully explored how much of the problem could be solved by practical application of tax deductions. For example, a deduction for children or other relatives of aged persons so that private insurance could be bought. There is a moral issue here. Would or would not John F. Kennedy help Father Joe if he went broke and got sick? Or would he dis- regard the moral strictures of religion and pass old, sick Joe over to a vague thing called society? Further exploration should be made of tax adjustments for corpora- tions which would provide health- insurance payments for their retired employes. Another possibility would be whatever assistance is necessary to help private insurance to cover eld- erly people as well as younger ones. of by be considered next year in a calmer and: more rational climate. The whole subject should be stud- ied further, and any legislation should aa Newsweek, August 22, 1960 erspective Registered , U.S. Patent Office A New Kind of Campaign by Raymond Moley AMPAIGN orators are already filling the air with platitudes about the “new frontier” and the “challenge of the future” and all that sort of thing. But they must realize, especially those who are campaigning for the national tickets, that so far as campaigning goes, the future is already here. The maelstrom of world events in which we find ourselves and the actual phys- ical business of campaigning distin- guish this top-level debate from all others in the past. After visiting a considerable num- ber of states from coast to coast, and changes the air train, rest, Reasonable that ever was days. collect timate bruised mon after examining the communications I have received from those reporters who have visited other states, it is my conclusion that upheavals and flaring conflicts in Asia, Africa, and Latin America are haunting American minds far more than the fate of the farmer, the family budget of the worker, con- cern about possible catastrophic ill- ness, or housing or school classrooms. These latter are important matters, but when there is the possible col- lapse of the U.N. and maybe a spread of war which would engulf millions and cast death over the land for ci- vilians as well as the military, there is priority among apprehensions. PARTY LINES IGNORED: More Americans than some of us realize would phrase their feelings like this: “Let’s let the home affairs be cared for by congressmen and sen- ators and governors. The President is the one in whose judgment will rest the awful decisions which may mean peace or war, annihilation or secu- raincoat. and port to lem speeches, shakes. of mental ical human may words deep rity.” Thus there is developing a dif- ferentiation in the estimates of voters between district and state candidates and the two individuals who are run- ning for President. I could name spe- cifically half a dozen states in which it is more than likely that the majority will go to one party in the state elec- tion and to the national candidates of the other party. Voters are likely to ignore party lines in evaluating the names on the national tickets. Moreover, the sheer physical de- mands upon national candidates this year transcend anything candidates have known and felt in the past. Radio sues and television, as has been said over for and over, have This made revolutionary the And with interest, slighted. lected. or comprehension He for character, pacity of issues I afternoon of scheduled wait. Stevenson campaigning West slight in campaigning methods. But candidates’ habit of traveling by has a still greater impact. When a candidate traveled by there were periods of quiet, and reflection between cities, a seclusion from the pests pounce upon a candidate when- he makes a public appearance possible for nights and parts of He was afforded a chance to his thoughts, talk with his in- advisers, and rest his poor right hand, that bit of com- property with no holds barred. | BATTERED He was jammed into a seat we took off. At La Guardia Air- there was a handful of politicians grab him and whisk him to Har- for many appearances, short and thousands of hand- Imagine weeks and months days like that. It is beyond the and almost beyond the phys- and emotional capacity of one being. In such a campaign, a candidate rely, sometimes unwisely, upon written by others. If he lacks personal knowledge of the is- congressmen, is why this campaign is unique. conditions, he must utter same routine again and again. now, when there are 50 states a thousand local problems, no however small, may be No pressure group neg- No hand unshaken. No local state VIP overlooked. In the confusion the voter loses all of the detailed issues. will reach out for the man, feel his mental muscle, his essential judge his strength and ca- to bear the massive burdens the Presidency. The rest of the he will regard as_ chores senators, governors. their « the ce CANDIDATE One of the most poignant scenes have ever witnessed was on a late in Pittsburgh in the autumn 1956. I was seated in a plane for New York. There was a The word was that candidate was due. He had been all day, I believe, in Virginia. He appeared, a worn, figure, garbed in a battered and Famec Newsweek, September 26. 1960 White o’ Scc occas: avail in De Perspective Labor and HE following is an account of : meeting between candidates Kennedy and Johnson and Sen. Harry Byrd in August. In the main, it based upon an article by a responsi- ble reporter, der Linden, 1955 by Senators Kennedy, Clements, Douglas, Lehman, Pastore, Murray, and McNamara which proposed ex- actly what the 1960 platform promises about “right-to-work” laws. Kennedy answered that he “did not press its passage.” Kennedy could have done so because he was a member of the Labor Committee and could have in- sisted upon hearings. There were no such hearings, and the bill died. KENNEDY S. Frank van published in Southern newspapers, in- cluding. The Nashville Banner and The Greenville (S.C.) News. The ac- count did not come from Byrd, but _ apparently from the Johnson people. In late August, Kennedy and Johnson had a meeting of Southern senators to win their support for the national ticket. Byrd was a conspicu- ous absentee. Thereupon, Kennedy and Johnson asked to come to Byrd’s office to explain things. Byrd told the two candidates that he disagreed with most of the Los Angeles plat- form, especially the pledge to repeal that section of the Taft-Hartley Act which permitted states to enact “right-to-work” laws. Byrd was as- sured by Kennedy and Johnson that such a repeal “won't necessarily be enacted if they are elected.” Byrd then confronted Kennedy with a bill (S. 1269) introduced TO MEANY Byrd made it clear then, as he did in the Senate in a speech, that he considered such a repeal an unwar- ranted invasion of the right of a state to enact such a law. Twenty states have it, and in nine, “right-to-work” is in the state constitution because a vote of the people. In the AFL-CIO News for Oct. 1960, there appears a lengthy in- terview of Kennedy by president George Meany: “Mr. Meany: Senator, I believe that kind of strong labor movement is made impossible by measures such as ‘right-to-work’ laws. you think?” “Senator Kennedy: What Let me do make U.S. Patent Office Registered the Candidates by Raymond is in of 1, Moley it clear once again, as I have in the past, that—whatever office I shall hold —I shall always be unalterably op- posed to so-called ‘right-to-work’ laws at any level, Federal or state ... To achieve that goal [preserve and pro- tect the legitimate rights of legitimate unions] now means the elimination of some anti-labor sections of the present labor laws. To that end, I am _ un- equivocally committed.” Nixon opposes the repeal of that section of Taft-Hartley. FACING BOTH WAYS While the great majority of the leaders of the big unions are com- mitted to the Kennedy-Johnson ticket, the millions of members who have elected them and supported them with their dues should consider se- riously the foregoing accounts of what Kennedy and Johnson have said—in one case to the South, and in the other to the unions through their offi- cial publication. The wisdom and effectiveness of “right-to-work” laws is not the issue here. The issue goes to the validity of a party platform and the pledges of party candidates. That is a matter for union members to consider. It also goes to the constitutional right of a state to legislate on a sub- ject which concerns its internal af- fairs. If the Federal government can invade a right of a state, validated by the courts, to pass these laws— and twenty states have exercised that right—there will remain little in a state’s province that cannot be taken away by a triumphant, powerful ma- jority in Congress backed by a Presi- dent who believes in such invasions. That is a matter for citizens of the South, indeed for all Americans, to consider. This goes to the essence of the kind of government we shall have in the United States. It is well known that the Southern States are bitterly opposed to most of the provisions of the Los Angeles platform. Texas Democrats made that position official in their state platform. Johnson said recently on “Meet the Press” that he had not calculated what either platform would cost. Thus, he has endorsed a_ platform which to him has no meaning in terms of money or taxes. Newsweek, October 24, 1960 Perspective The a a to a N THE midst of all the hand-on- heart declarations of politicians concerning the Negroes who are pre- vented from voting and the boasts that the right to vote has been ex- tended by Federal law to enfranchise those people, to my knowledge noth- ing has been said or done by either party for 8 million voters who were unable to vote on Nov. 8. These are American citizens who have moved from state to state. This number would be enough to swing the Presi- dential balance in a number of states in a close election. In NEWSWEEK’s own organization I know a consider- able number of executive, sales, and editorial personnel who lost their 1960 votes because of being shifted from state to state. As we turn to much larger business enterprises, the numbers run very high. Great corporations engaged in man- ufacturing or oil production and dis- tribution or chain stores must of necessity shift managers, salesmen, and other executives constantly. Each such shift made within a year dis- franchises in must cases at least two votes and in some cases more. There is no rational reason why these people should not be permitted to vote for President and Vice President. The bar to voting in 35 of the states is the requirement of one year’s resi- dence for eligibility. Three states re- quire two years. Others require six months. Perhaps reasons may be of- fered why relative strangers in a com- munity or state should not participate in electing state and local officials, since their familiarity with local con- ditions may be inadequate to justify a voice in such choices. But that does not apply to the election of the Presi- dent and Vice President, who are na- tionally known and who must serve all the people in all the 50 states. CORRECTION BY LAW This injustice could, of course, be corrected by legislation in the states. According to the American Heritage it! Foundation, a nonpartisan organiza- tion which has done a splendid job in getting out the vote for several years, three states have made such changes in their voting requirements. Cali- fornia has fixed the residence re- quirement at 54 days; Missouri at Disfranchised by Raymond 60 should not apply to voting for mem- bers of the Senate and House of Rep- resentatives, because under our system these are selected not only to make laws to apply to all, but to rep- resent in Congress the interests of their states. Moley days, and Ohio at 40 days But such changes in state laws take a long time. Voting qualifications are embedded in many state constitutions, It seems to me that Federal legisla. tion might be held constitutional which would permit every qualified American citizen to cast a vote fo President and Vice President where he has lived for 30 days. I have not studied the cases on this, but I invite lawyers and election officials who may read this to write and give me their opinions. Perhaps such liberalization TWO-DAY ELECTIONS According to the American Herit- age Foundation’s statement, three other groups were disfranchised for no substantial reason. There were 7.6 million who were business travelers or sick and hospitalized who lost their votes because of the variations of re- quirements among the states for =) sentee ballots. There are also the 600,000 disfranchised in the District of Columbia. Barring the latter rests upon reasons which have long since lost any rational meaning. Eight hundred thousand illiterates are barred, which is proper despite the radical proposal of the Demoesatil platform to abolish all literacy tests. | There are millions more who areh barred because of moving about within states and who do not under- stand the complicated process of new registration. Changes of registration take time and knowledge. Another suggestion would be to provide two days for elections. This is allowed in some European countries. When we are selecting people to serve us for two or four years, two days for voting would not be too long for making the momentous choices. The low percentage of voting among those who are eligible has been and remains a blot on our national con-: science, but that low percentage could be raised by a_reconsidera- tion and simplification of our absur and obsolete electoral system. Newsweek, November 21, 196 “| Perspective Is This N 1958, after Roman Catholic bish- I ops of Ohio had expressed public opposition to a right-to-work proposal in the campaign there, I wrote a piece in this space suggesting that ministers of the Gospel should stay out of poli- tics except when specific issues of faith and morals are involved. I then received a great many letters dis- agreeing with me. Most were from Protestant ministers. This left me with only the sad satisfaction that at any rate my small effort had helped to unite the Christian churches on least this one subject. Never have so many letters come in about an article until now. This time they are all in response to what I wrote in this space three weeks ago about the millions who were pre- vented from voting because of resi- dence requirements. In this instance all the letters were in accord. Some letters were from people who were themselves the victims of absurd and outworn residence requirements. Others dealt with the difficulty of get- ting and casting absentee ballots. Some were from state and local offi- cials suggesting reforms. And since had invited legal opinions about Fed- eral legislation dealing with the sub- ject, several were from lawyers. hope that this present article will bring many more. NOBLY CONCEIVED red or MESS The denial of the right to vote is subject which governors should deal with in their annual messages and which legislators should consider the new year. There can be only one conclusion from the abundant evi- dence on hand. Democracy is a nobly conceived experiment. But in its op- eration in the United States it is mess. While there are millions of peo- ple who are too careless and apathetic and selfish to care about voting, there are millions of others who want vote and cannot. It now appears not only that many have been disfranchised because clumsy laws and customs, but that indeterminate number who legiti- mately voted were not counted the final returns—enough, perhaps, have reversed the final choice of President. No doubt, thousands other “votes” were counted which Democracy? by Raymond at were not cast by anyone except op. rupt election officials. This compounds the _indictmy against our electoral system. With 4 the public money that is spent in hay enforcement, we are still apparent) unable to guarantee a completely x which take us back 90 years to th wholesale corruption of Tammany) Tweed Ring, complacency is not bk I I a in a to of an in to a of Moley curate and honest election for th Presidency of the United States. Thi casts a shadow upon the competeng and integrity of the nation. BACK TO TWEED It is all well to say, as did one san. timonious newspaper, that “there ar frauds in every election.” But wha the evidence already revealed i Cook County, IIl., shows condition coming in any American. In Texas, The Houston Chronick conducted of eleva a spot check counties and found that the Texaf law had not been complied with to account for paper ballots which were’ thrown out for alleged improper marking. Since the ballots regarded aj invalid were not properly kept fof canvassing by higher authorities, 10 one will ever know how many voted for whom and whether valid vote were counted. There were maf thousands of discrepancies, perhaps 150,000, between the numbers d votes cast and the numbers credited to the candidates in the retump There may have been enough to have changed the result in the state. Ff A first responsibility rests upon thef states. They should modernize thei election laws and, so far as possible make them uniform over the nation} Action toward that end could come§ from governors...conferences and th associations of state secretaries of state and attorneys general. The responsibility of Congress is take steps to provide Federal inspec tion of elections of Presidents, sent Gin tors, and members of the Hous.f There have been laws and _proposiif to protect the voting rights of Negroef and to control the activities of corpot }) 7} o tions and labor organizations. Ther} err seems to be no reason why Feder) power with new legislation should no { protect the accuracy and honesty 4 voting generally. Newsweek, December 12, ! Here's a text extraction of the provided image.  I've tried my best to maintain the original formatting and separate the two columns, but some minor inconsistencies might remain due to the image quality and the original layout:   **Perspective** Registered U.S. Patent Office  **Sowing the Windfalls** by Raymond Moley  The Republican Party, in pursuing its policy of ridding itself of the tag of "the party of the rich and big business," might reveal the extent to which "liberal" legislation provides rich windfalls, in the name of "the little fellow," for a new rich and big business class. Consider the unfolding picture of public housing, slum clearance, and urban renewal in which windfalls are created for promoters, political lawyers and bankers, investors, contractors, and others. Or note that the chief beneficiaries of the soil bank are large corporations whose major profit is not in selling the product of their thousands of acres, but in government benefits. Many other avenues to riches might be cited for a few individuals and organizations who certainly are not "needy" or "little"—all in the name of general welfare.  The Humphrey-Price bill, which failed to pass over the President's veto, would have taken the Rural Electrification Administration away from the watchful eye of a fine public servant, Secretary Benson. The Washington lobby for rural electrification, many members of Congress, and zealots for a government power monopoly want to push "rural" electrification beyond the remote farmers, who are now supplied, to the suburbs and the cities. This would be deadly competition with investor-owned companies because the government is lending money to the rural electrical cooperatives at 2 per cent—half or less what the government must pay for it.  **SPECTACULAR GROWTH**  No one questions the validity of the original purpose of the REA, nor the wholesome character of most of the 900 cooperatives. Most of them are content with sticking to their field with modest returns. But since they are associated in a sort of trade association-pressure lobby called the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, they are being led collectively into a vast scheme which promises illimitable profits not in the production and sale of electricity but in banking and investment. That is, so long as the present 2 per cent rate of borrowing from the government and tax-free status can be retained.  The head of the NRECA, Clyde C. Ellis, is a man of vast imagination coupled with incredible political influence. At the last meeting of his organization he unfolded the plan. It involves the brimming financial position of the cooperatives. The latest reports show a spectacular growth in their "investments and savings" account. In 1953 this was $43.7 million, in 1957 it was $192 million. The total earned surplus rose from $153 million in 1953 to $382 million in 1957.  Ellis proposed that the investment account be put into his NRECA in trusteeship—an unusual function for a trade association-pressure organization. Then he proposed that this pool be placed with a New York bank for investment opportunities. It is ironical that Ellis has always denounced the "Wall Street" financing of the private, investor-owned companies.  **BLUE-CHIP POOL**  "A pool," he said, "would be able to invest a reasonable portion of its funds quite soundly in the highest grade blue chip industrial bonds and most of the balance in the highest-yield long-term governments... The pool would have a constant inflow from maturing investments and from new investments and, therefore, would have to keep on hand only a relatively small amount of short-term low-yield governments. This fact alone could appreciably increase the return over that of a single system's program with the same flexibility."  It would, indeed, if the cooperatives choose to relinquish their independence and give over to this sort of vast investment operation, made profitable by borrowing from the government at half or less than half the price which government must pay for its money. For this "pool" might become the biggest thing in Wall Street.  Space permits only a mention of another Ellis dream, recently proposed. It would have the Federal government build a big Potomac River project on the TVA model. It would provide boating, swimming, picnicking for bureaucrats and employees of pressure groups, as well as Federal hydroelectric for the capital community. This Potomac paradise would be a monument to that deathless fourth branch, the pressure group.  Newsweek, July 6, 1959 Here's the text extracted from the image.  Note that due to the image quality and layout, some words might be slightly misrepresented.   **Perspective**  **High Taxes and Hard Work**  by Raymond Moley  THERE are still old-fashioned folks among us who believe that high taxes discourage hard work, extra effort, more production, and hence more income and more taxes to pay. They agree with the tramp in the cartoon who said: "I finally found a way to beat the income tax and I haven't worked since."  But there is a school of modern economists, well represented in the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, who are undermining this last remaining tenet of more primitive times. These economists hold that the exact opposite is true.  Prof. Sumner H. Slichter, who has his moments of empyrean flight, puts forth the New Thought this way: "High taxes on profits may even be stimulating rather than discouraging [to business]."  No one objects to people speculating on such things in Harvard—as long as they stay in Harvard. When they become policymakers in the government of the United States, however, their ideas become a matter of public concern, in this case of great concern. Slichter's generality seems to have been based upon a curious book, "The Effects of Taxation on Executives," by Thomas H. Sanders, also a Harvard Business School professor. It was edited by Dan Throop Smith, a professor on leave, who, when appointed to serve with Under Secretary Marion B. Folsom, was announced as "responsible for analysis and building of tax policy."  Can it be that the Administration's insistence upon a continuation of the iniquitous excess-profits levy was based at least in part upon the theories of Smith who still believes the Sanders book to be sound?  Prof. David McCord Wright, in an address published by the National Industrial Conference Board, neatly dissects the book. He points out that the conclusions of the author are "merely a write-up, heavily edited, of a somewhat haphazard collection of interviews." Professor Wright also points out that even the interviews presented by Sanders contain a good deal of evidence that high taxes are a deterrent on business enterprise.  In a passage where Sanders discusses the comments made by self-made executives about their sons, he says that said sons "are not occupied with work, progress in business... but with the good life, good living, and forms of social service." Wright observes that he is "surprised that a business school of all institutions should release a book in which the 'good life' is in some way opposed to work." Of course, Harvard will claim that Sanders' opinions are in the realm of academic freedom. That might mean that people who do not believe in success should teach young men how to succeed.  I would add to Wright's criticism two further observations. The first is that this school of economists seem to have revived a myth which they, of all people, have always labored to dissipate—the "economic man." They have created a new economic man—this time, "the businessman," and have tried to put an abstraction into material form. Who knows what predominates in the mass of impulses that drives him to scorn delights and live laborious days? And who can devise a generality that fits such a conglomerate of people?  My other observation is that once more we see an effort to use taxation to produce something other than revenue. New Deal economists used taxes for all sorts of things—for reforming people generally, for redistributing wealth, for abolishing poverty, for breaking up big business, and even for hunting down criminals. Now comes a new use. It is to make men work! Material profit may not be the sole motive that moves us. But the earned dollar is still a measure of the value that others put upon our efforts and as such it is a measure of personal achievement and personal satisfaction.  **P**ROGRESSIVE taxation, notably in taxes on business, is designed to put the heaviest penalty on that last extra effort that marks the difference between mediocrity and excellence. Surely, that is not the way to promote national progress and high endeavor. Government was not designed to determine what makes men work.  Newsweek, September 28, 1953 Here's a text version of the provided image.  Note that due to the image quality and column layout, some minor inaccuracies might be present.  This is the best approximation possible given the input.  **Perspective**  **‘Excessive Abuse’**  by Raymond Moley  ADDRESSING himself to the disgraceful exhibition of bias and bad manners by some of the correspondents at the President’s Armistice Day press conference, Richard Wilson of the Cowles publications said: “There was an excessive abuse of the privilege of the press by newspapermen who ought to know better.” It took courage for Wilson to say this, but he has courage as well as an unusual sense of the responsibilities of his profession.  But the Armistice Day exhibition and the outburst of criticism that it brought to the correspondents seem to have taught them nothing. For the reporting of the President’s press conference on Nov. 18 was in many papers a clear misstatement of what Mr. Eisenhower said. It was widely reported that the President indicated that he did not want the Communist issue to be a major factor in the 1954 campaign. This was easily interpreted to mean that he was opposed to an earlier statement of National Chairman Hall that the Communist issue would really be a major factor. This follows a line very clearly marked out by partisan Democrats and intended to drive a wedge between the President and the Republican National Committee. The President’s statements were also stretched by some correspondents and commentators to mean that he is inimical to Congressional probes of Communism in government.  Let us see what the President said. This is the salient part of the report of the press conference in which the President is replying to a question which quoted Chairman Hall and went on to ask the President’s opinion concerning the Communist issue in 1954:  “Issues in political campaigns are not made by any individual, and that includes the President of the United States. Issues are made, as he sees it, by the needs of the country… We know that the cleaning out in government, of course, is important… He is proceeding with his associates, the President said, as strongly and as earnestly and as thoroughly as he can in that direction, and he is trying to do it without doing injustice to any individual… Now, he added, he hopes that this whole thing will be a matter of history by the time the next election comes around.”  That is a correct statement of the basic fact that issues are made by the interests and concerns of the public. It is also a clear statement of confidence in his Attorney General.  Later, Chairman Hall said: “I am in complete agreement with the President, but I don’t think that the people will quickly forget that the Communists entered the government under the previous Administrations, and that they have been ousted and removed by the Eisenhower Administration.”  To paraphrase Hall, candidates are going to ask the voters to remember who it was who put the Communists in government and who drove them out. The latter will include not only the President and Attorney General but committees of Congress, which pursued subversion despite fierce criticism, and respective chairmen of those committees.  One of the most blatant examples of bias in the Armistice Day conference was provided by Anthony Leviero of The New York Times, who said: “Mr. President, I think this case is at best a pretty squalid one.” The rest of his long speech-question was equally loaded with prejudice.  But a week later, The Times permitted him to conduct a pell-mell poll of reporters on the question whether the Eisenhower Administration had embraced McCarthyism and to write a prejudiced story about it in a prominent place in the paper. The problem of press behavior therefore moves beyond the individual reporter to the paper itself.  CONSIDERING the way things are going, the President should adopt one of two courses. Either abolish the Presidential press conference or put it on television. The public is entitled to know exactly what the President says and the tones and emphasis with which he speaks. The proof is mounting that a considerable number of Washington correspondents are unwilling to provide a definitive interpretation of what the President says.  Newsweek, November 30, 1953 Here's a text version of the provided image.  Note that perfect accuracy is difficult due to the image quality and some potential OCR errors. I've done my best to maintain the original column structure:   **Perspective**  **Mr. K, Farm Expert**  *by Raymond Moley*  It must not be forgotten that Khrushchev rose to power as a sort of agricultural genius. Not even the mystical Henry Wallace has had such wonderful farm plans as the Jolly Slav. But unlike our Henry, Mr. K had direct methods of demonstrating his talents. Henry had statistics at his command and some authority. But he was always hampered by his naïve ideas, which he designated as "democratic." Mr. K permitted no such impediments. Furthermore, he created his own statistical successes.  He originated in a Ukrainian village and has posed as an agrarian expert, a man close to the people who toil on collective farms.  It was Mr. K who, a few years ago, opened vast tracts east of the Urals for "progressive agriculture." It was a foolhardy venture and there was plenty of headshaking among the hardhanded, practical people who knew well the hostile, arid wastes of Kazakhstan. But a plan's a plan in the Soviet, regardless of the Lord, nature, and experience. And so men, tractors, and then women were shipped into the semi-desert.  While Henry Wallace was a deeply religious man with mystical overtones and Mr. K certainly is not, apparently the rain falls upon the just and unjust alike, this time heavily in favor of the latter. The rain came, a mild temperature prevailed, and the stuff grew. Mr. K was photographed smiling over a large potato.   **Soviet Juggling Act**  Statistics don't lie, they say, but it depends upon what you are counting and when. Facts can be manipulated to suit a purpose. In Mr. K's rise after Stalin's death, he made a sensational announcement: "Soviet Russia has fewer cattle than there were in czarist Russia." Specialists pondered this astonishing assertion. They found that Mr. K had classified cows as pigs and, statistically, transformed horned cattle into mares. Thus at the beginning of his enterprise he could point with alarm. After three years, statistical pigs were reincarnated as cows and the "mares" resumed their bovine classification. The Khrushchev propaganda duly capitalized upon this miracle. Wallace had a host of statisticians and knew in his off hours various haruspices. If he had succeeded, as he is doing now with chickens, in cross breeding the two species, his farm plans might have been the wonder of the ages. That miracle belongs to the atheist, Mr. K.  Americans are familiar with the Soviet boast, "Whatever you do we can do better." An American Army officer in Tokyo whose thumb was double jointed illustrated to a Russian officer how he could bend his thumb back to his forearm. The Russian did it and was immediately consigned to the Tokyo hospital. Readers of "War and Peace" will remember the officer who consumed a bottle of vodka while standing on a window ledge.   **Behavior Pattern**  This Russian trait will be apparent in Mr. K's travels here. When Frol Kozlov, First Deputy Premier, visited the Middle West, NEWSWEEK'S Harry Homewood was present and relates the indifference of Kozlov and his retinue of Soviet photographers and newsmen. There was no evidence of surprise or admiration until they reached a dairy farm in Grundy County, Illinois. Up to then the standard comment was that "we have it too" and "more and bigger." But when they entered the farmer's milkhouse their interest rose to fever heat. The arrangement was normal for such an establishment—a three-stand automatic milker which transported the milk from cows to a stainless-steel collecting tank and thence to a truck. All was housed quite antiseptically. Every pipe and joint in the contraption was photographed amid great jostling and talking.  After collecting this evidence of an American achievement, they resumed their "We-can-do-it-better." One of them asked the meaning of "co-or" on the truck. A representative of the State Department explained. One of the Soviet reporters threw up his hands in a gesture of self-confidence, "Ah, Communism!" he exclaimed. Whatever Mr. K says ad lib is not the important matter for observation. But what he and his group instinctively reveal in wonder and admiration certainly is. That is what they will carry away for future reflection.  Newsweek, September 28, 1959 Perspective Registered U.S. Patent Office  A Comptroller Without Control by Raymond Moley  THE President says that tax cuts scheduled for April 1 must be suspended because, once more, the budget cannot be balanced. Chronic extravagance, which seems to be the order of the day, seems to be due to the inability of the President to resist people who advise new forms of spending and to the fact that the heads of his big departments are the prisoners of the holdover bureaucracy.  But while the President needs backbone to achieve economy, Congress needs the means necessary to con- trol its appropriations. Such means, it was once thought, would be available to both the President and Congress through the Budget and Accounting Act of 1921.  Under that act, the twin offices of Budget Director and Comptroller General were established. The first was to serve the President; the sec- ond, to inform Congress. Both were designed to provide control over the Federal establishment which even then was beginning to burst its seams. Both offices, however, have fallen victims of the disease they were supposed to attack, bureauitis. The Budget Director doesn't direct and the Comptroller doesn't control.  This failure to realize the hopes of 1921 is especially notable in the case of the Comptroller General. Six years ago in this space I pointed out that: "No other appointed officer outside the Judiciary enjoys such a guarantee of independence. The Comptroller General is appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate for a term of fifteen years. By this means it was intended to place him beyond the reach or influence of succeeding Presi- dents and Congresses... Removal can be achieved only by impeachment or by joint resolution of Congress for specified causes...  "Under the law the Comptroller General can formulate policies which affect the interests of Congress and measurably enforce them on Execu- tive departments. The general terms of his power are sweeping. He can settle all claims in which the United States is interested, either as debtor or creditor, and such settlement is 'final and conclusive upon the Executive  branch of the government. Most im- portant of all, he can on his own initia- tive and without direction of Congress investigate 'all matters relating to the receipt, disbursement, and application of public funds.' In conducting investi- gations, he can command all depart- ments to furnish information and to give access to all records upon request ... The Comptroller General exercises his power 'without direction from any other officer.'  "But unfortunately, after granting this officer all this power, Congress by law and the Comptroller General by practice moved into the field of government ac- counting. As a result, ac- counting, which should be a function of the Executive, has bogged down and submerged the functions of audit and investigation.  "In short, Congress failed to distin- guish between audit and control. An audit is an investigation and report on the fidelity and legality of completed transactions. "Control, on the other hand, is the power to pass on expenditures and to prevent their being made." And now for this immensely im- portant office the President has sent to the Senate for confirmation the name of Joseph Campbell, who served for a while as treasurer of Columbia University during the Eisenhower presidency there. He has since been a member of the AEC. He is an estimable gentleman and, no doubt, a good accountant. But this job needs a strong investigator who can reso- lutely set his face against not only irregularity but waste of every kind. He should be the right arm of the ap- propriations committees of Congress.  IN THE years since the Hoover commission reported before, there has been a slight indication of in- creased activity by the Comptroller General's office. It claims to have saved the government $915 million. This is good, but in the words once used by Bernard Baruch, only "a faltering step forward." Congress should claim this appoint- ment as its own; the Senate should reject this nomination, and insist upon a stronger appointment.  Newsweek, January 3, 1955 Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  I've tried my best to separate the two columns, but due to the image quality and OCR limitations, there might be minor inaccuracies.  **Perspective**  **Registered U.S. Patent Office**  **Lessons for Americans**  *by Raymond Moley*  LONDON—The monumental sweep of the Conservatives in the British general election offers many force- ful lessons for American political par- ties, for our politically active labor unions, and for Americans generally. The plain facts revealed can scarcely be argued. Americans should aban- don many of their political phantoms and fallacies.  The liberal wing of the Democratic Party should note the great similarity between its arguments and the now discredited appeals of the British so- cialists. Both promise greater spend- ing for social services, housing, and educational novelties. Both would find new taxes from the rich and from business. Both offer the Keynesian theory of multiplying production by government spending. In this, Gaitskell and most American liberal politicians and economists offer the same false elixir. The British socialists and American liberals are simply of- fering the antiquated concepts of the 1930s. The British electorate, weary of these ideas, rejected them and their sponsors.  **LOCAL ORGANIZATION**  The political labor unions in Amer- ica and the British socialists alike en- courage a class division—the rich and big business against the poor. This class appeal utterly failed in this elec- tion. The great and growing middle group, who are a majority in both countries, want no class struggle. Both British and American workers are coming to scorn the idea that they are a class apart.  Republicans and conservative Dem- ocrats should stop trying to outprom- ise liberal Democrats. This only produces apathy, which keeps their potential voters at home on election day. We should have learned that in 1948. The British Conservatives waste no time trying to argue with committed socialists. They get their own potential voters to vote.  The Conservatives fought hard and hit hard. A soft appeal tranquilizes. There must be a definable choice. Hard hitting produces excitement and a big vote. And it was proved here that a big vote is a solidly conserva- tive, not a radical, vote.  Most important is the need of Re- publicans and conservative Democrats for strong, active local organization. In Britain much of the power that has brought victory in three elections and a great gain in four has come from the efficient party organization built up by Lord Woolton and Churchill more than ten years ago after a great de- feat. Its high efficiency has been kept up since. It is based on the fact that elections are won in many local areas, not on a mythical national level. The big factor in Conservative organiza- tion is the agent, who is profes- sionally trained over a period of a year or eighteen months and who works the year around.  **WORK OF AGENTS**  Realizing the importance of the lo- cal areas from my experience in cov- ering the elections of 1950 and 1955, I neglected London this time and spent the last week in the Birming- ham area, which comprises 58 constit- uencies. The party machinery centers in a Birmingham area office, which advises the agents in the constituen- cies or divisions. The agents are dedi- cated to maintaining party vigor in the years between elections. When an election campaign comes, they have complete records of the individual voters. Then they manage things, us- ing many volunteers. In three constituencies which I visited, a Con- servative candidate defeated a Labor member. In one case the Conserva- tive candidate was unimpressive but the agent was excellent.  The public-opinion polls, despite their wide publicity, did badly. There were so many pollees who answered "don't know" that the percentages of preferences were meaningless. The election proved that the "don't knows" were really "won't tells." As the so- phistication of voters increases, the polling business will meet more and more terrible fiascoes.  Television was in full blast for the first time in this election. It ran a poor second to the old-fashioned local meetings with face-to-face heckling. There were many of what the British call "switch-offs." Macmillan, how- ever, made many votes by his last, short personal appeal based upon high idealism and the pride of the British people.  *Newsweek, October 26, 1959* Here's a text version of the provided image.  I've tried my best to preserve the original formatting, including separating the two columns, but there might be minor inconsistencies due to the image quality and OCR limitations.  **Perspective** **Dilemma of the Left** *by Raymond Moley*  Now, seven weeks after witnessing the rout of the Labor Party in Britain and after visiting three other countries in Europe, it is time to appraise the political revolution which seems to be quietly moving over our Western allies. It is the ascendency of experience over experimentation, the realization of the possible over prophecy, things over ideology, and fact over fancy. We might consider this in our calculations for 1960.  Ireland, in turmoil since Cromwell, is quiet, reasonably well to do, a bidder for the tourist trade. West Germany, as I noted in an earlier article, has its "Wirtschaftswunder." This expression, the title of a book on America in 1920 by Julius Hirsch, is their word for "economic miracle." The old Socialist party, the Social Democrats, has this month renounced Marxism as an anachronism. Italy, with considerable poverty still in the south, is mostly prosperous and safely governed by the Christian Democrats.  Most important to us as we approach another election is the plight of the British Labor Party. As Lord Woolton says in his recently published memoirs, the adoption of the name "Labor Party" by the Socialists was an inspiration. But now the name is a millstone because it suggests the idea of a class party. And class distinctions are becoming less important over there by the day. There are the poor and needy, but they are no longer identical with the workers. Nationalization has no appeal. Thus, the two tenets of Socialism, the class struggle and government ownership, fade into the past, leaving Hugh Gaitskell and his more practical colleagues with a party without an issue.   **AN ILL-ASSORTED LOT**  What was significant in the British election was not the third victory of the Conservatives, but the actual fourth rejection of Labor. For in the election of 1950 a fat majority of 186 in the House of Commons was reduced to a little more than a dozen. Labor's great sweep in 1945 was a wholly abnormal manifestation of weariness, impatience, and near-despair by a nation eviscerated by a long war.  At the forthcoming conference of the Labor Party there will be underlined the internal malaise with which it is afflicted. The creators of the party and its component elements have always been an ill-assorted lot. There were the armchair, doctrinaire Fabians like Shaw, economists like the Webbs, bitter haters of everything traditional like Aneurin Bevan, trade unionists, welfare workers, amateur university intellectuals, and politicians who were refugees from the prostrate Liberal Party.  This aggregation was ill-fitted to provide a major alternative for the business of government. In the past, the alternative to the Tories had been the Liberals led by such great parliamentarians as Gladstone and Asquith. These offered differences in emphasis and in direction. But a wide similarity of purpose permitted the two parties to alternate in governing Britain with no revolutionary changes.  **PARTY OR MOVEMENT**  Within the present parliamentary minority there are men, like Gaitskell, who would like to fulfill a function similar to that of the Liberals of the past. But the composition and support of the party frustrates this ideal. For the party has its share of zealots still intent upon Marxist goals. Moreover, it must depend for finances upon the trade unions, which are concerned with more immediate practical advantages. Compromise must be sought at every turn—impossible compromises considering the composition of the party following. As someone wrote during the campaign, Gaitskell is at a loss as to whether he is the head of a responsible party suited to govern, or the high priest of a reform movement. This is his dilemma. Unless it can be resolved, his party may die. Surely it can never regain power in its present state.  During the campaign Gaitskell followed a line known to Americans through Democrats like the Humphreys and Republicans like the Rockefellers and Javitses. It promises lower taxes and high spending, to be paid for out of a hypothetical increase in the rate of production. The British refused the gamble. Americans, if they are wise, should also reject such economic illusions.  *Newsweek, November 30, 1959* Perspective  Registered U.S. Patent Office  The Needs of Our Schools  by Raymond Moley  Despite the ballyhoo for Federal aid that will surround the forthcoming White House Conference on Education, two serious obstacles stand in its way. The first is the fear in the South that Federal money would be used to enforce desegregation. The other is the rational and factual argument against resorting to Federal aid to meet the needs of our schools.  That rational and factual argument against any Federal plan has never been stated better than in a booklet just published by the American Enterprise Association in Washington, D.C. This study, invaluable to the citizen lost in the turbulent sea of statistics and semantics, is entitled "Federal Aid to Education—Boon or Bane?" Its author is Roger A. Freeman, assistant to Governor Langlie of the State of Washington. Freeman served as chief adviser to the Bennion committee of the Commission on Intergovernmental Relations which last spring presented very strong exceptions to plans for Federal aid which were before Congress at that time.  Some of the pertinent questions on this subject with Freeman’s answers are these:  Is there a denial of schooling for American children and if so how severe is it? The National Education Association, a chief proponent of Federal aid, has claimed that 4,599,000 children were not attending school in 1954. Freeman answers that this figure includes 3 million 5-year-old kindergartners and 1.1 million who were beyond the compulsory attendance age in their states.  Is there a teacher shortage? Not as great as in many other important professions and occupations.  What about salaries? Between 1939 and 1953 the pay of educators rose 47 per cent. This was higher than the rise of managers, proprietors, professional and technical workers. It was lower than skilled and unskilled industrial workers.  How big is the need for new school construction? The estimates have a bewildering variety running from 476,000 to 176,000 schoolrooms. It is an obvious fact that slavish adherence to tradition in the observance of hours of use and vacations means that school property is grossly underused.  Can states and local governments afford to meet their own needs in school construction and teachers’ salaries? For the most part, yes. No state has exhausted its taxing powers and both states and local communities still have vast borrowing capacity.  Could Federal aid be provided equitably and rationally? No! For politics would require some form of across-the-board aid in which both the rich and poor would participate. No one has yet devised a politically acceptable method of applying Federal aid only where there is a genuine need.  Could we have Federal aid without Federal control? Dr. S.M. Brownell, now U.S. Commissioner of Education, said in 1939: “If Federal aid is to bring about better schools, it seems apparent that there must be some Federal control.” Control by a Federal bureau would be bad enough but there would, to a degree, be control of that bureau by national pressure groups such as the NEA.  My own conclusion, after a careful perusal of this Freeman study, is that while there are spots where there is real need and where local districts and other units are short of resources, a clumsy, politically inspired system of Federal aid would not meet those real needs while it would waste money on places where no need exists. What is needed is a nonpolitical, independent, and scientific determination of needs and resources and the application of money accurately designed to meet only genuine necessities. This sort of aid is a job for private philanthropy, not the government.  The Ford Foundation through its “Fund for the Advancement of Education” has made a very considerable study of the subject. Why shouldn’t the Ford Foundation with its resources in billions undertake to go beyond mere surveys and provide the help that is needed? The Ford money came from the Main Streets of America. Why shouldn’t a large part of that money be spent there?  Newsweek, November 28, 1955 Perspective  Common Sense and Taxes  by Raymond Moley  THE rush into print by leaders of both parties in Congress with assurances of relief to the suffering taxpayer is belated but welcome. Quite properly, these promises are made with the qualification that drastic budget cuts should precede tax cuts. There is another qualification which may or may not be observed. When and if tax relief comes, it should be something more than a mere handout, such as a raising of exemptions. A tax plan should recognize a number of very important principles:  It should provide relief all along the line. It should be a program of reduction extending over a period of years. It should recognize that the evil in present rates is their steep progression. It should provide the greatest relief for the middle-income groups—the real victims of present policies. It should recognize that more revenue may well be gained from lower, rather than higher, rates. It should discourage the growth of government, particularly Federal expenditures. It should moderate the tax on individuals and on small businesses, and also discourage the unproductive disposition of large incomes now made to escape taxes.  THE “NEW BOUNTY”  Finally, and I believe most important, it should give the benefit of the anticipated growth of our national production to taxpayers, not to specially selected beneficiaries of handouts. One of the most pernicious of economic theories which now prevail in Washington is that, since we may anticipate about $3 billion or $4 billion increases in our national product, this “new bounty,” as Candidate Stevenson called it in his campaign, should go for increases in Federal expenditures. This “new” economics is more dangerous than that promulgated by the late Lord Keynes. For Keynes favored cutting back spending in good times. The “new bounty” economics, popular not only among “liberal” Democrats but among economic wizards in the Eisenhower Administration, would continue spending increases in good times because there is more wealth to tax. Antoni N. Sadlak has been a hard-working and clear-thinking congressman from Connecticut for more than ten years. Out of his experience on the Ways and Means Committee and other sources, he has developed a tax-reduction plan embodied in H.R. 6452. This bill recognizes the principles listed above. It does not cover all inequities, but it strikes at the most pernicious, which are in the individual and corporate income taxes.  GRADUAL REDUCTION  His plan would contemplate a gradual reduction in rates over a period of five years beginning next January. The reductions specified would give to the taxpayers the benefit of the “new bounty” without reducing the actual revenues of the Federal government. If the President and Congress will keep expenditures down, it might be possible under such a plan to pay off a part of the debt. The Sadlak plan would start with a reduction of 1 per cent a year in the basic 20 per cent rate. Then the surtaxes above that would be reduced yearly at rates which in five years would bring the total paid by any individual down to 42 per cent. Corporate taxes would come down from 52 to 42 per cent. The bulk of individual relief would be in the basic rate, which now provides 83 per cent of the $33 billion raised from individuals. The extremely high rates yield relatively little revenue at present. People in the brackets above 26 per cent paid, in 1956, only seven per cent of the total individual income taxes. Those in the brackets above 80 per cent paid less than two per cent. The reduction in corporate rates would, in fact, enable a price reduction, since in reality the corporate tax is an excise paid by the consumer. The bill has a built-in safeguard which would permit the President and Congress to postpone a scheduled reduction for six months or a year, whenever there is danger of a deficit. If all possible postponements were used, the full reduction would take place in nine rather than five years. Authority for these reductions, however, would put the burden of proof on the President and Congress. There will be other plans for tax relief. But Sadlak has drawn attention to the substance of the problem.  Newsweek, May 6, 1957 Here's a text extraction of the provided image.  Due to the quality of the image and the two-column layout, some words might be slightly inaccurate. I've done my best to maintain the original structure and column separation.  **Perspective**  **Making Lawmakers** by Raymond Moley  LOS ANGELES—More perceptive Californians are deeply concerned with what they believe to be the most important lesson to be learned from the recent Senatorial election in Wisconsin. This is the fact, there demonstrated, that names, however splendiferous, and Presidential sponsorship, however fervent, cannot avail against the drive of an efficient organization dedicated to getting out the vote. That is the sort of thing that gained for a man named Proxmire, in a by-election, nearly the entire normal Democratic vote. It may well get a lot of victims out here. It is the united political machinery of the labor unions in their effort to make their own laws by making their own lawmakers.  The headlines and political small talk here and in most of the country concern the shining sons of the Golden State—the Chief Justice, the Vice President, the Republican leader of the Senate, and the California governor. But while these eminent men have been sweeping this state over and over, a far, far more important operation has been in action—something to reckon with after Warren, Nixon, Knowland, Knight, even Mr. Eisenhower, have vanished from the front pages.  **REPUBLICAN LOSSES**  Here are ominous figures. In 1948, when Mr. Truman carried California, Republican candidates for the U.S. House of Representatives received 59 per cent of the vote. But in 1952, when the Presidential vote favored the Republican candidate, the Republican share of the House vote dropped to 54 per cent. In 1956, despite the big Eisenhower majority, it fell much more—to 46 per cent. As it fell, three districts switched from Republican to Democratic. In 1954 the CIO selected the Republican congressman in the Twelfth District (Fresno) for extermination, and succeeded. In 1956, the AFL-CIO’s COPE (Committee on Political Education) moved into the Eleventh District and by a thoroughly professional job supplanted another Republican with a political newcomer. This invites a closer look at the trend. It shows that in the past four biennial elections hitherto solid Republican counties have become marginal, and marginal Republican counties have become marginal Democratic, and marginal Democratic counties have become solidly Democratic. This trend has been especially notable in the sparsely settled areas in the north, on the eastern border, and in the lush San Joaquin Valley. This is evidence of the recent AFL-CIO strategy, no doubt created by Walter Reuther, of seeking Congressional seats where the attack is least expected and where the most seats can be gained with the least expenditure of money and manpower. Alliances in such areas are made with public-power zealots, radical farmers, and other collectivist groups. Obvious examples are the Oregon sweep, and the capture of Senate seats in Idaho and Colorado. Note also the capture of the Twelfth California in 1954, and the Eleventh in 1956.  **COPE’S HARVEST**  The trend is notable in the State Legislature. In 1953 there were in the Assembly 44 Republicans and 36 Democrats. In 1957 there were 42 Republicans and 38 Democrats. (There has been one Republican gain in a by-election recently.) In the Senate in 1953 there were 29 Republicans and 11 Democrats. In the recent 1957 session the Senate party count was 20-20, and Governor Knight told me recently that two of the Republicans were voting with the Democrats.  This drive for the legislature is intended not only as a means of stopping any legislation opposed by the unions, but for the more important purpose of controlling the reapportionment of the state after the census of 1960, when it is expected that the present U.S. House representation of 30 will climb to 38 or 40. Gerrymandering will give AFL-CIO several additional easy districts.  Thus, while the curious public is beguiled by the cavorting and the rivalries of big-name figures, COPE is gathering in the jobs which make the laws. In fact, there may even be another Proxmire in the Senate to succeed Knowland. COPE has already captured the Democratic Party in California and may well turn the state into another Michigan.  Newsweek, September 16, 1957 Here's a text extraction of the provided image.  Note that due to the columnar layout and image quality, some minor inaccuracies might be present.  **Perspective**  **The Score on Economy**  by Raymond Moley  As cool autumn days soothe the city of Washington, members of Congress who struggled through the heat of the summer are not at home to enjoy the change. They are there facing another sort of heat, explaining their records on the issues which concern their constituents.  There is always need for that, because in their long absences during the sessions of Congress there are plenty of enemies and rivals prowling about, describing their voting records in most unflattering terms. This is never difficult to do, for a member of Congress must register many votes and by a process of selection and omission he can be made to appear in a most unfavorable light. In 1956, so far as Republican members are concerned, this was made more annoying because a private publication, the Congressional Quarterly, in its reports had in its choice of roll calls permitted partisans to draw the inference that the President's support came largely from Democrats.  In the campaign of 1956, for instance, the CQ was widely used to back up such a statement as this by candidate Stevenson:  "The truth is that President Eisenhower, cynically coveted as a candidate but ignored as a leader, is largely indebted to Democrats in Congress for what accomplishments he can claim."   **REPUBLICAN DEFENSE**  In several articles in this space in the summer of 1956 I denied this conclusion by citing the full record of roll calls, in contradiction to the selectivity of the Congressional Quarterly. Subsequently, Senator Schoeppel, chairman of the Republican campaign committee, spread on the record a full account of members' voting which substantiated my own. Apparently the CQ revised its method of compiling records, but it has again been necessary for the Republican campaign chairmen in the Senate and House, Senator Schoeppel and Representative Simpson, to offer their own compilation of members' records. One of their compilations concerns Republican support of the President as compared with Democratic support. The other concerns the relative standing of the membership of the two parties on the vital issue of economy. The analyses of voting were published in the Congressional Record of Sept. 19.  Figures in both the House and Senate show that when the chips were down on important items of the Eisenhower program—in 27 roll calls in each House—the Republican support score was 82 per cent, and Democratic support registered 23 per cent.  However, to the average citizen the votes on economy are more important than support or opposition to the President. On this point Senator Schoeppel said in his statement:  **VOTES ON ECONOMY**  "The Congressional Quarterly of Aug. 2 once again published a misleading report. It gives the impression that Democratic members of the Senate were more concerned with economy than the Republicans." Schoeppel points out that the CQ "did not include many issues that were of great significance…" One of these, he says, was the Hells Canyon bill, on which the Democrats voted favorably 40-5, and Republicans opposed 33-5. In the roll calls which Schoeppel cites, 63.7 per cent of the economy votes were by Republicans; only 36.3 were by Democrats.  On the House side, Congressman Simpson presented 100 record votes, of which 49 reflected a stand on economy. Of these, Simpson says: "Republicans cast 63 per cent of the economy votes. The Democrats cast 70.7 per cent of all spending votes." The Schoeppel-Simpson researches indicate great care. It is a pity, however, that this vital matter is thus left to rival claims. Would it not be a wise thing for both parties in Congress to set up a bipartisan statistical agency which might make plain and easily understandable the votes of the parties as a whole and of individual members? Then let the voters decide. At the present time, not only does the Congressional Quarterly but the ADA, the AFL-CIO Committee on Political Education, and several other agencies publish confusing versions. Then the party leaders issue their own reports.  Newsweek, October 21, 1957 Here's a text version of the provided image.  I've done my best to separate the two columns and avoid overlapping text, but some minor inconsistencies might remain due to the image quality.  **Perspective** **No Time for Committees** by Raymond Moley  IF ANY man ever earned a twilight of unworried years, it is Dwight D. Eisenhower. He has spent himself lavishly for us in war and peace. As medical authority now tells us, he carried on at the peril of his life after 1955. Once more, a grim warning knocks at his door. His dearest friends, his near kin, and his own intelligence should save him from the greater peril of government through a plural regency in the weeks and months ahead. These moral and equitable considerations have priority over the interests and purposes, however sincerely held, of official associates who believe unbroken tenure of active service indispensable for him as well as for themselves.  "Inability" or "disability" (both words are used in the Constitution) does exist. Medical opinion says just that. The coronary thrombosis and the cerebral thrombosis come from the same underlying pathology, despite what the White House has said. A national emergency also exists. The threat of war, our shaky alliances, the financial necessities of our government, the unmistakable hesitation of business, stress between North and South, and the demoralization of the President's party should command the utmost energies of a well man vested with untrammeled and undivided responsibility and authority.  Those immediately around the President should not repeat the makeshift course taken in 1955 and 1956. The Vice President now, as then, is constrained by sensibilities of honor, propriety, and prudence from speaking his mind concerning what course should be taken.  **INDIVISIBLE AUTHORITY**  Common sense must reject the claim that a disabled President can make the decisions while a congeries of committees work out the onerous preliminaries. Decision cannot be divorced from exploration of facts, discussion, argument, and a clear examination of alternatives.  These facts, together with the President's past recognition of such a possible emergency, call for one of two, and only two, courses. One is resignation and the other is the assumption by the Vice President of all, not part, of what the Constitution designates as "the powers and duties" of the Presidency.  The happiest solution would be for the President himself to make that decision at once. In the present absence of legal provision for such transfer of authority, the President's decision would not be questioned. Then, as the President himself has urged from time to time, Congress should assume its constitutional duty and "provide for the case of removal, death, resignation, or inability" and also for the determination when "the disability be removed."  It would be absurd to vest by law such determinations in the Vice President or the Cabinet. They are parties of interest. The Supreme Court in Marbury vs. Madison declared that Congress may not impose additional original jurisdiction upon the Supreme Court. Also, there would be grave doubt whether this would be a judicial matter and the Court would, I believe, refuse to act.  **SOVEREIGNTY IN CONGRESS**  Between elections the President and Congress share the sovereignty of the nation. In this case the Congress is the nation's sovereign power. Hence Congress should make the decisions in each individual case by a majority vote of the House and by two-thirds of the Senate (as in impeachment proceedings).  Two terrifying examples of the neglect of Congress to provide for disability confront us. The Wilson incapacity, according to the authoritative Prof. Charles Seymour, resulted in our failure to enter the League of Nations. I heard it from Democratic senators then on the Foreign Relations Committee that, except for the faltering hand of Wilson, the necessary reservations to the Covenant would have been accepted. The other example was the clear but unrevealed "inability" of President Roosevelt in 1944 and 1945. Perhaps in the latter case partisanship would have prevented Congressional action, but the fact was there.  The safety of the nation, internal and external, as well as the life and well-being of a beloved President depend upon action in this crisis.  ○ Newsweek, December 9, 1957 Here's a text version of the provided image.  Note that perfect accuracy is difficult due to the image quality and column layout.  Some minor variations in phrasing or punctuation might exist.  **Perspective** **A Stool Needs Three Legs** by Raymond Moley  The homely metaphor of the three-legged stool will serve to describe what the Republican Party needs to stabilize itself. For there are laws in politics as well as in physics which forbid defiance of gravity. Many people glibly assume that all the GOP needs is a new party philosophy and bright new faces on the tickets.  It is true that the party needs a fighting faith, sharply distinguished from that of the so-called liberals, and attractive candidates. But the party needs basic organization, too, and since that is the longer job, it should be first on the agenda as the National Committee meets in Des Moines in late January.  A master plan, prepared by chairman Meade Alcorn and reported in the press, is to be the subject of discussion at that meeting. And rightly it stresses better organization as a major problem. This plan is in many respects excellent. It stresses the Congressional district as the basic unit for work in regaining control of the Federal government and also of State Legislatures and governorships. The Congressional district is a manageable unit, larger than the county and smaller than the state. The plan also suggests annual regional conferences devoted to the training of local people in campaign techniques and strategy.  **THE UNIONS KNOW HOW** These fundamentals are understood clearly by many people in the Democratic Party, especially the politically minded leaders of the labor unions. Twenty years ago, these union leaders realized that behind the facade of a very popular President the party units were hollow shells. Hence, those leaders moved in with money, manpower, and highly skilled political methods of getting out the vote and took over in many districts and states. They began at the level of the precinct—the city block, the apartment house, and the shop. Their agents were professional in two senses. They were paid, year-round employees of the unions themselves or, in the case of shop stewards, of management. They were also expertly trained in the down-to-earth practice of union politics. While there should be more enforcement of the laws regarding the use of union funds, their power has amply been demonstrated by the number of political unknowns and greenhorns whom they elected to the 86th Congress. The Republican Party need not adopt their legislative objectives, as some “liberal” Republicans suggest, but the party might learn from their technique.  **BUILD FROM BOTTOM UP** In the Republican Party, however, there are two factors which complicate the problem. It cannot commandeer the services of workers, generally. Volunteers must constitute the main reliance in campaigns. And the Republican Party is composed of many parts. There are the National Committee and the two campaign committees in the houses of Congress at the top. These have no direct authority over the countless local and state Republican organizations. Hence, there must be a clear distinction as to the functions of the local and state parties and the national organizations. The Alcorn program fails, it seems to me, to emphasize this distinction. The Republican Party can never regain its strength except as it is built from the bottom. The National Committee may suggest and to a degree help. It cannot impose its will upon the states and localities. And Alcorn’s suggestion of a group of 40 roving experts to go into states and work is impracticable and dangerous. For it may not be realized in Washington yet, but there is a strong feeling in the states and Congressional districts that they must work out their own salvation.  An earlier suggestion of mine, made in this space shortly after the election, is essential. That is the employment in 50 to 100 Congressional districts of paid, year-round managers, financed by the people in the districts and responsible to the party organizations there. The National Committee might well set up an institute or school to train these professionals and also give publicity to party principles through pronouncements of the President and Vice President. So far as recruiting candidates and directing local activities are concerned, its function should be purely advisory. This is a workable formula for success in 1960.  **Newsweek, January 26, 1959**   (Note: The right-hand column contains additional text unrelated to Moley's article, seemingly a separate piece about Barr.) Here's a text version of the provided image.  Note that some words are difficult to read due to the image quality, and there may be minor inaccuracies.  **Perspective** **The Measure of a Man** *by Raymond Moley*  WHEN we take the measure of a man, we ask: What of his early environment and heredity? What was his inner character? What challenge did life and circumstance offer? What was the climate of the time?  Vincent Astor lived his childhood and youth apart from the generality of most of us, in a world insulated—of private tutors, of travel, of contact with notable people here and abroad. If we may call this the discipline of an aristocrat, it left with the young man the finest attributes of such tuition—a grace of life, subdued pride, personal honor, and manners and sentiments free from struggle for self.  In the midst of this protected life, as a college lad of 20, he lost his father whom he adored. This projected him into great affairs and massive responsibilities. One whom some might call a child of fortune became a servant of a solemn duty. Personal inclination and plans for the pursuit of science were pushed aside by an inexorable trusteeship.  The gilded age was over, and, with it, the social and political supremacy of great wealth. Political and social unrest and dissent were dominant in the America of those early 1910s. This was an added challenge.  **DEMOCRACY'S EXPONENT**  The young man soon appraised his great properties of land in New York as not merely a certain source of increment but as a profound obligation to the city whose growth made them so valuable. He improved them in a manner fitting to the city and state which he loved. Above that was his devotion to the nation which had welcomed the hardy enterprise of his famous ancestor.  To that country he gave his service and substance in two wars. He sought no shield from peril. And since then his ardent patriotism abided no tolerance for its enemies within—Communists and their friends.  His early training and an innate reserve, coupled with strong personal preferences, denied indiscriminate mixing with either the people on his own material level or the proverbial men in the street. Like the aristocrat Jefferson, the friend of the first American Astor, he was nevertheless a potent exponent of democracy. To the end, when he willed the bulk of his fortune to "alleviate human misery," he was acutely sensitive to the neglected needs and aspirations of the less fortunate.  In my 26 years of association with him—years of loyalty and friendship seldom known in this world—I came to know his social and political ideals very well. He supported his neighbor on the Hudson in four campaigns for the Presidency, at first because he believed in bringing the power of government to the service of human welfare and the correction of economic excesses and, later, because the President in the face of war was the trustee of the interests of the United States.  **UNDER ORDERS**  But with a discriminating intelligence Vincent Astor opposed those who would carry the quest for correction to the brink of a class struggle. He sought no public office or honor, declining high place in government in 1933. His abiding interest was the sea, its ships, and those who manned them—the Navy and that indispensable service in war and peace, the merchant marine.  I know I express the sentiments of the many who have served with him in his many enterprises when I say that he expected nothing from them that he was unwilling to assume himself, that he was generous with their failures and happy in their successes, that he had rare capacity for delegating responsibility, and that his judgments were of an uncommon kind. His memory they will hold always as something enduring and priceless.  One of them, now with NEWSWEEK but once a submarine officer, in a service close to Captain Astor's heart, within the week has told me of what a chief petty officer once said to a young sailor whose brother was lost in a sister ship:  "All of us travel under Orders. He traveled under Orders. He isn't lost. The Man who wrote the Orders doesn't lose anyone. Not ever."  My friend added: "The next tour of duty is going to be a better tour of duty, and you always meet your old shipmates. In one port or another, sooner or later."  Newsweek, February 23, 1959 Here's a text version of the provided image.  I've attempted to separate the two columns as accurately as possible, but some minor overlaps might remain due to the image quality.  **Perspective**  **Most Dangerous Rumor**  *by Raymond Moley*  TOKYO—The most frequent question I have encountered in nearly three weeks in Japan is whether the United States is contemplating the recognition of Red China. This lies heavily on the minds of political and business leaders. Radical elements devoutly hope for it. Responsible people who see the perils involved fear it. If the United States should recognize Red China, Japan would of necessity follow suit. The consequence would be the loss of vast Southeastern Asia to the free world. Before long, the Communist frontier would reach to Australia, Hawaii, and our Pacific Coast. A friendly Japan would be exposed or absorbed.  In most of the countries of Southeast Asia there are countless Chinese who would be easy victims of Communist propaganda and other subversive influences. Their governments could not be saved by American aid.  One source of rumors about recognition are the Communists. But it has been given specific but false authority by a Japanese politician of some prominence. His story, widely spread, is embellished by the use of the names of two prominent American civilians who presumably have influence with the American Government.  My reply to questions is that no responsible leader in either American party has or will advocate recognition. For to do so would ignite bitter indignation among the American people.  **THE MORAL ELEMENT**  I have also explained that our policy of recognition has greatly changed since President Woodrow Wilson broke precedent in refusing recognition to a Mexican dictator and later to Soviet Russia. In earlier years, we followed the international custom of recognizing any country which had measurable stability. The Wilson doctrine brought the moral element into recognition.  In present American policy are several new elements. We are a member of the United Nations, pledged by its charter against aggression as a national policy, a policy persistently followed by the Peking government. Moreover, our people bear the bitter memory of thousands of Americans killed by Chinese intervention in the Korean war. And we have a profound obligation to Formosa, which in our obligation to Formosa, which in our obligation to Formosa, which in our left Japan’s peril from Communism is both external and internal. It lies close to the overwhelming powers of Red China and Soviet Russia and has no significant military strength to protect itself. They would certainly make trouble for a capitalist Japan. Nor could Japan contend with the greatly increased infiltration which would follow recognition.   Internally, Japan faces great dangers from Communism. Communists, since their official party has virtually disappeared, have crept into labor unions, the Socialist Party, student groups, and clubs. These elements, working through the organizations they have entered, have as their prime objective the weakening of Japan’s system of policing and internal security.  **DENIALS NEEDED**  Fourteen years of study and investigation of the administration of criminal justice in the 1920s and 1930s, in part for Federal and state official agencies, have helped me to evaluate closely Japan’s police and internal-security system. It is far from adequate. During the occupation, SCAP required the complete decentralization and reorganization of the efficient system that prevailed before the Pacific war. This went so far that Japan’s capacity to maintain order was drastically weakened. Only the presence of American military power assured security.  Since the occupation, national legislation has improved things. But much more needs to be done, especially to secure the national government in the capital area of Tokyo. A capital is the danger point for revolutions.  It is evident that Peking invests a lot of money in Japan’s political campaigns. An election of Tokyo’s governor or mayor is to be held this month, and half of the upper house of the Diet in June. The campaigns are already under way.  Most important is the need to resolve all doubt about any plans for recognizing Red China. This is up to the responsible officials of both parties in the American Government. Very specific denials are necessary.  *Newsweek, April 20, 1959* Here's a text extraction of the provided image.  Note that due to the image quality and the two-column layout, some minor inaccuracies may be present.  I've tried to maintain the original paragraph breaks as accurately as possible.   **Perspective** **A Road Away From Statism** by Raymond Moley  On a recent radio program I was asked by the moderator whether I was worried about the number of businessmen whom Eisenhower had chosen for his official family. I an- swered that I was not nearly so wor- ried as I would be if I were one of the businessmen concerned. For to these men is now offered a challenge which, if successfully met, will deliver the business community from its long exclusion from official life and the public suspicion which was placed upon it by attacks of the Roosevelt and Truman Administrations.  And now as the tumult and the shouting of the In- auguration dies and the captains and the kings of the Fair Deal depart and the new administrators settle down at their desks this awesome question rises on every side: How is this Administration going to fulfill the hopes of those millions who put them there and withdraw from its twenty years' role of planner, manager, and provider and assume its proper place in a free society?  A very helpful contribution to an answer to this question comes to me in a letter from a friend who is a notable businessman in his own right. He is Courtney Brown, an official of the Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey and a director of ESSO. His letter in part follows:  "It has been said there is nothing so powerful as an idea whose time has not come. The attitudes and the affairs of men move in broad tidal patterns. It may not be pressing the point too far to say there has been an accumu- lating body of evidence in recent years that the tide is beginning to swing from what might be called 'stat- ism.' That is not only true in this coun- try (I think it would have been true even if Stevenson had been elected, but to a lesser extent), but it is also true in elections and events in other parts of the free world. The important thing, it seems to me, is that the Ad- ministration think its way through to where the new drift is leading us, and attempt to rationalize and direct the movement into the most benefi- cial patterns.  "It would be a mistake to interpret this movement away from statism as a movement to, or even toward, the al- ternative of old-fashioned individual- ism. The world is too complex to entertain the idea that individualism is enough. Rather I suspect that the new movement is toward increasing reliance upon voluntary associations.  "Careful thought at the community level, as well as at the state, national, and even international levels, will dis- close numerous opportunities for voluntary groups to meet social needs—needs which otherwise will be met by government. Whether the voluntary organization takes the form of a business firm, a labor union, a co- operative, a church, a re- search or trade organization, a university, or an entirely new organization to perform a specific function, it has one characteristic which differs fundamentally from government. It must rely on co- operation, tolerance, understanding, and public acceptance for its effectiveness and support, whereas government ultimately relies upon various forms of compulsion, including taxes.  "If indeed this is the direction in which we are moving, there is a real opportunity, it seems to me, for the new Administration to give positive encouragement and direction. It may be that only by doing so can the Administration find the means of making good on its implicit commitment to curtail the responsibility of government and the size of the Federal establishment. We cannot escape from the present tangle of bureaucracy and deficits merely by dropping functions now performed by the government. Merely to scuttle and run will bring public indignation, political retaliation, and ultimate reaction to statism.  "There has been a lot of talk in the air about government reorganization of late. Perhaps these discussions should include consideration of the advisability of setting up in the Bureau of the Budget a small group of highly qualified, widely acquainted men and women, whose sole function would be to study, promote, and facilitate in all appropriate ways the assumption of social functions by voluntary groups, including the transfer of such functions from government."  Newsweek, January 26, 1953 Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  I've attempted to preserve the original column structure as much as possible. Note that some minor formatting discrepancies may exist due to the image quality and OCR limitations.  **Perspective** Registered U.S. Patent Office  **Sowing the Windfalls** by Raymond Moley  The Republican Party, in pursuing its policy of ridding itself of the tag of "the party of the rich and big business," might reveal the extent to which "liberal" legislation provides rich windfalls, in the name of "the little fellow," for a new rich and big business class. Consider the unfolding picture of public housing, slum clearance, and urban renewal in which windfalls are created for promoters, political lawyers and bankers, investors, contractors, and others. Or note that the chief beneficiaries of the soil bank are large corporations whose major profit is not in selling the product of their thousands of acres, but in government benefits. Many other avenues to riches might be cited for a few individuals and organizations who certainly are not "needy" or "little"—all in the name of general welfare.  The Humphrey-Price bill, which failed to pass over the President's veto, would have taken the Rural Electrification Administration away from the watchful eye of a fine public servant, Secretary Benson. The Washington lobby for rural electrification, many members of Congress, and zealots for a government power monopoly want to push "rural" electrification beyond the remote farmers, who are now supplied, to the suburbs and the cities. This would be deadly competition with investor-owned companies because the government is lending money to the rural electrical cooperatives at 2 per cent—half or less what the government must pay for it.  **SPECTACULAR GROWTH**  No one questions the validity of the original purpose of the REA, nor the wholesome character of most of the 900 cooperatives. Most of them are content with sticking to their field with modest returns. But since they are associated in a sort of trade association-pressure lobby called the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, they are being led collectively into a vast scheme which promises illimitable profits not in the production and sale of electricity but in banking and investment. That is, so long as the present 2 per cent rate of borrowing from the government and tax-free status can be retained.  The head of the NRECA, Clyde C. Ellis, is a man of vast imagination coupled with incredible political influence. At the last meeting of his organization he unfolded the plan. It involves the brimming financial position of the cooperatives. The latest reports show a spectacular growth in their "investments and savings" account. In 1953 this was $43.7 million, in 1957 it was $192 million. The total earned surplus rose from $153 million in 1953 to $382 million in 1957.  Ellis proposed that the investment account be put into his NRECA in trusteeship—an unusual function for a trade association-pressure organization. Then he proposed that this pool be placed with a New York bank for investment opportunities. It is ironical that Ellis has always denounced the "Wall Street" financing of the private, investor-owned companies.  **BLUE-CHIP POOL**  "A pool," he said, "would be able to invest a reasonable portion of its funds quite soundly in the highest grade blue chip industrial bonds and most of the balance in the highest-yield long-term governments... The pool would have a constant inflow from maturing investments and from new investments and, therefore, would have to keep on hand only a relatively small amount of short-term low-yield governments. This fact alone could appreciably increase the return over that of a single system's program with the same flexibility."  It would, indeed, if the cooperatives choose to relinquish their independence and give over to this sort of vast investment operation, made profitable by borrowing from the government at half or less than half the price which government must pay for its money. For this "pool" might become the biggest thing in Wall Street.  Space permits only a mention of another Ellis dream, recently proposed. It would have the Federal government build a big Potomac River project on the TVA model. It would provide boating, swimming, picnicking for bureaucrats and employees of pressure groups, as well as Federal hydroelectric for the capital community. This Potomac paradise would be a monument to that deathless fourth branch, the pressure group.  Newsweek, July 6, 1959 Here's a text extraction of the provided image.  Note that perfectly separating the two columns was impossible due to the image quality and layout. Some minor overlaps might remain, requiring manual correction for a flawless result.  **Perspective**  **The Feedback Obsession**  by Raymond Moley  MONTPELIER, VT.—Here in the quiet of the Green Mountains there is time to reflect upon the brief chroni- cles of the times. A few observations emerge concerning a current trend in politics and education. I feel no pessi- mism about the fiber of our people. But our "leaders" are cause for alarm.  A century ago, the bright, brave faith in democracy was in popular elections and the elevation of the common man to uncommon responsi- bilities. Our system, it was believed, would produce super-leaders. That was not the faith of the sober gentle- men who founded the Republic. Nor was it shared by acute foreign ob- servers like Toqueville.  The tide of popularization swept on after the Civil War, tossing into power mediocrities, demagogues, and ras- cals. Later, in the 1900s, the theme was that "the remedy for the evils of democracy is more democracy." The choosing of candidates was vested in primaries, and "the people" assumed the immensely complex task of mak- ing the laws through popular vote. Still, "democracy didn't democ."  The irrational end is here: First, there is the current obsession with polls which captures many journalists and politicians, "leaders" who were given their audiences in the belief that they had something to lead with. While Governor Rockefeller has de- nied a report that he is going to per- mit the polls to determine his decision to compete for the Presidency, this report, widely published, indicated the weight attached to these auguries and was a shock to many thoughtful people. This was the comment of a great reporter, Arthur Krock, who has never followed the pack:  **THE PASSION FOR POLLS**  Under such circumstances, a Presi- dential candidate "would be the product of questions selected and phrased by a small group and asked of a tiny percentage of the popula- tion, in periods prior to those which might bring fundamentally different responses." Such pitifully small sam- ples are "organized as a profit-making business, some of them financed by Presidential aspirants who have or can raise the money to do so." Krock further suggests that "the next Presi- dent will be spawned out of a row of clacking computer machines.  Disaster befell Thomas E. Dewey in 1948 because his great confidence in polls shaped his carefree, "it's-in- the-bag" campaign. But at the moment nothing so occupies the at- tention of several putative Presiden- tial candidates as polls.  Other examples of feedback are in Congress. In a Senate where once was heard the profound constitutional ar- guments of Calhoun and Borah, the measured reasoning of Taft, and even now the expert, experienced financial views of Harry F. Byrd, the Record is strewn with insertions by a lesser breed-multitudes of letters from friendly constituents, editorials from home-town newspapers, and bulky statistical tables borrowed from gov- ernment departments.  **IT'S EASIER TO COUNT**  There are serious books which dig beneath the surface into our pres- ent national leadership: C. Wright Mills" "The Sociological Imagination," Richard La Piere's "The Freudian Ethic," and Jacques Barzun's "The House of Intellect." The latter speci- fically dissects our current numbers game. The public, denied by its "leaders" the exercise of intellect, seizes upon tangibles. If it has noth- ing to think about, it can count. Arithmetic and computing machines take over. There are baseball aver- ages between breaths on broadcasts, "achievement" and "intelligence" per- centages, and an undisclosed number of noses for McDunder or Iffyson.  These books point to the roots of the current craze for mathematical leadership. There is feedback from the "permissive" home through school- ing clear to the Ph.D.—education without discipline. Teachers offer what the caprice of students desires. Foundations supplant serious gradu- ate study with expensive mechanical counting by "researchers" who are mere clerks. Why think, when it is easier and more book-filling to count? Why exercise judgment when you can be outnumbered? And in this most critical moment in history, "leaders" of public opinion and politics provide for those who seek guidance only what they know already.  Newsweek, August 31, 1959 Perspective  Mr. K, Farm Expert by Raymond Moley  It must not be forgotten that Khrushchev rose to power as a sort of agricultural genius. Not even the mystical Henry Wallace has had such wonderful farm plans as the Jolly Slav. But unlike our Henry, Mr. K had di- rect methods of demonstrating his talents. Henry had statistics at his command and some authority. But he was always hampered by his naïve ideas, which he designated as "demo- cratic." Mr. K permitted no such im- pediments. Furthermore, he created his own statistical successes.  He originated in a Ukrainian vil- lage and has posed as an agrarian expert, a man close to the people who toil on collective farms.  It was Mr. K who, a few years ago, opened vast tracts east of the Urals for "progressive agriculture." It was a foolhardy venture and there was plenty of headshaking among the hardhanded, practical people who knew well the hostile, arid wastes of Kazakhstan. But a plan's a plan in the Soviet, regardless of the Lord, na- ture, and experience. And so men, tractors, and then women were shipped into the semi-desert.  While Henry Wallace was a deeply religious man with mystical overtones and Mr. K certainly is not, apparently the rain falls upon the just and unjust alike, this time heavily in favor of the latter. The rain came, a mild tem- perature prevailed, and the stuff grew. Mr. K was photographed smil- ing over a large potato.  SOVIET JUGGLING ACT  Statistics don't lie, they say, but it depends upon what you are counting and when. Facts can be manipulated to suit a purpose. In Mr. K's rise after Stalin's death, he made a sen- sational announcement: "Soviet Rus- sia has fewer cattle than there were in czarist Russia." Specialists pon- dered this astonishing assertion. They found that Mr. K had classified cows as pigs and, statistically, transformed horned cattle into mares. Thus at the beginning of his enterprise he could point with alarm. After three years, statistical pigs were reincarnated as cows and the "mares" resumed their bovine classification. The Khrushchev propaganda duly capitalized upon this miracle. Wallace had a host of statisticians and knew in his off hours various haruspices. If he had suc- ceeded, as he is doing now with chickens, in cross breeding the two species, his farm plans might have been the wonder of the ages. That miracle belongs to the atheist, Mr. K. Americans are familiar with the So- viet boast, "Whatever you do we can do better." An American Army officer in Tokyo whose thumb was double jointed illustrated to a Russian officer how he could bend his thumb back to his forearm. The Russian did it and was immediately consigned to the Tokyo hospital. Readers of "War and Peace" will remember the officer who consumed a bottle of vodka while standing on a window ledge.  BEHAVIOR PATTERN  This Russian trait will be apparent in Mr. K's travels here. When Frol Kozlov, First Deputy Premier, visited the Middle West, NEWSWEEK'S Harry Homewood was present and relates the indifference of Kozlov and his retinue of Soviet photographers and newsmen. There was no evidence of surprise or admiration until they reached a dairy farm in Grundy County, Illinois. Up to then the stand- ard comment was that "we have it too" and "more and bigger." But when they entered the farmer's milkhouse their interest rose to fever heat. The arrangement was normal for such an establishment-a three-stand auto- matic milker which transported the milk from cows to a stainless-steel col- lecting tank and thence to a truck. All was housed quite antiseptically. Every pipe and joint in the contrap- tion was photographed amid great jostling and talking.  After collecting this evidence of an American achievement, they resumed their "We-can-do-it-better." One of them asked the meaning of "co-or" on the truck. A representative of the State Department explained. One of the Soviet reporters threw up his hands in a gesture of self-confidence, "Ah, Communism!" he exclaimed. Whatever Mr. K says ad lib is not the important matter for observation. But what he and his group instinc- tively reveal in wonder and admira- tion certainly is. That is what they will carry away for future reflection.  Newsweek, September 28, 1959 Here's the text extracted from the provided image.  Note that due to the image quality and column layout, some minor inaccuracies may be present.  **Perspective** **Dilemma of the Left** by Raymond Moley  Now, seven weeks after witnessing the rout of the Labor Party in Britain and after visiting three other countries in Europe, it is time to appraise the political revolution which seems to be quietly moving over our Western allies. It is the ascendency of experience over experimentation, the realization of the possible over prophecy, things over ideology, and fact over fancy. We might consider this in our calculations for 1960.  Ireland, in turmoil since Cromwell, is quiet, reasonably well to do, a bidder for the tourist trade. West Germany, as I noted in an earlier article, has its "Wirtschaftswunder." This expression, the title of a book on America in 1920 by Julius Hirsch, is their word for "economic miracle." The old Socialist party, the Social Democrats, has this month renounced Marxism as an anachronism. Italy, with considerable poverty still in the south, is mostly prosperous and safely governed by the Christian Democrats.  Most important to us as we approach another election is the plight of the British Labor Party. As Lord Woolton says in his recently published memoirs, the adoption of the name "Labor Party" by the Socialists was an inspiration. But now the name is a millstone because it suggests the idea of a class party. And class distinctions are becoming less important over there by the day. There are the poor and needy, but they are no longer identical with the workers. Nationalization has no appeal. Thus, the two tenets of Socialism, the class struggle and government ownership, fade into the past, leaving Hugh Gaitskell and his more practical colleagues with a party without an issue.  **AN ILL-ASSORTED LOT**  What was significant in the British election was not the third victory of the Conservatives, but the actual fourth rejection of Labor. For in the election of 1950 a fat majority of 186 in the House of Commons was reduced to a little more than a dozen. Labor's great sweep in 1945 was a wholly abnormal manifestation of weariness, impatience, and near-despair by a nation eviscerated by a long war.  At the forthcoming conference of the Labor Party there will be underlined the internal malaise with which it is afflicted. The creators of the party and its component elements have always been an ill-assorted lot. There were the armchair, doctrinaire Fabians like Shaw, economists like the Webbs, bitter haters of everything traditional like Aneurin Bevan, trade unionists, welfare workers, amateur university intellectuals, and politicians who were refugees from the prostrate Liberal Party.  This aggregation was ill-fitted to provide a major alternative for the business of government. In the past, the alternative to the Tories had been the Liberals led by such great parliamentarians as Gladstone and Asquith. These offered differences in emphasis and in direction. But a wide similarity of purpose permitted the two parties to alternate in governing Britain with no revolutionary changes.  **PARTY OR MOVEMENT**  Within the present parliamentary minority there are men, like Gaitskell, who would like to fulfill a function similar to that of the Liberals of the past. But the composition and support of the party frustrates this ideal. For the party has its share of zealots still intent upon Marxist goals. Moreover, it must depend for finances upon the trade unions, which are concerned with more immediate practical advantages. Compromise must be sought at every turn—impossible compromises considering the composition of the party following. As someone wrote during the campaign, Gaitskell is at a loss as to whether he is the head of a responsible party suited to govern, or the high priest of a reform movement. This is his dilemma. Unless it can be resolved, his party may die. Surely it can never regain power in its present state.  During the campaign Gaitskell followed a line known to Americans through Democrats like the Humphreys and Republicans like the Rockefellers and Javitses. It promises lower taxes and high spending, to be paid for out of a hypothetical increase in the rate of production. The British refused the gamble. Americans, if they are wise, should also reject such economic illusions.  *Newsweek, November 30, 1959* Here's the text extracted from the provided image.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the image quality and the nature of OCR.  **Perspective**  **Retrospect and Prospect**  by Raymond Moley  IN POLITICS—especially in politics—history and experience are the venerated teachers of teachers. So before peering into the 1960s I shall revisit the beginnings of the past five decades.  The December days of 1909 were shadowed by a turn in personal fortunes. Doctors said I could survive another summer only by abandoning job, plans, and prospects in another climate. And so from a situation of utter detachment, I saw the defeat of an old order which began in March 1910 with the clipping of the wings of Speaker Joe Cannon by a revolt of "progressives" in the House.  In November, the Republican Party, encumbered by a reactionary money power, met defeat. Young idealists were inspired by the hope of a decade of domestic reform. This expectation of a brave new order was blighted by war in 1914. Then, just before World War II, the prospect of stabilizing reform and the denial of a third term was promising. But the imminence of war assured another Roosevelt term. Thus, all calculations for the 1960s must be limited by the possibility of war or its imminence. War is the master of political destinies.  **PERIL OF PREDICTIONS**  In the early spring of 1920 I sat with two of Ohio's top Republicans on a train from Columbus to Cleveland. One had spent some days in Washington with a carefree Warren Harding and the senator's cronies, highballs, penny ante, and golf. The other leader said with a sneer that Harding would be nothing but a favorite son and a pawn in convention strategy. "Governor Lowden will be nominated," he concluded. No one mentioned the inconspicuous governor of Massachusetts. Lesson II: Avoid predictions about nominees.  In 1930 it was clear that an economic earthquake would bring about a revival of the "progressivism" of twenty years before. That is what happened. In 1949 it was apparent that only the flabby campaigning of candidate Dewey had prevented a defeat for government by cronyism and for blunders in dealing with Communism at home and abroad.  The forces that will shape politics in the 1960s might be war and its threat, the economic cycle, official corruption, personalities—especially when they split a party—the movement of population, industrial change and invention, and the quality of organization.  Barring war and international tensions, certain domestic issues will carry far into the 1960s:  The farm surplus headache will remain with us. But its political influence will decline with the accelerating drop in the number of farmers. Even in the old farm states, urban, suburban, and nonagricultural areas will become predominant.  **TRENDS IN 1960**  It is quite possible to expect that the drift toward Federal centralization will be slower.  The crazy Federal social-security and welfare setup, in the face of the certain event of its bankruptcy, will be rationalized.  Wage earners will continue to be strongly unionized, but automation, foreign competition, and shifting public tastes for products will mean critical years for labor leadership. As wage earners move farther into the middle-income group, the influence of a purely political labor power will decline. There will still be the poor and needy, but workers will no longer be proletarians.  The fiscal obligations of the Federal government, because of present and prospective Federal programs, will reach a trillion dollars in the 1960s. Presently tapped tax sources cannot sustain that load. The rate of growth of national wealth and income, relied upon by some to meet these huge obligations, is speculative. It will not suffice. The credit of the United States must be a major domestic concern of the Presidency.  The party system is now in decline. Perhaps a new pattern of modified, competitive capitalism will be embraced by both parties. Shorn of the outworn shibboleths of the 1930s and 1940s, both parties can operate to provide effective options for choice by the electorate.  We shall be swept by neither despair nor revolutionary change. Optimism is still an American habit.  Newsweek, December 14, 1959 Here's a text version of the provided image.  I've done my best to separate the two columns, but some minor overlaps might remain due to the image quality.   **The Parties: Raymond Moley...**  Contributing editor Moley, whose PERSPECTIVE usually appears elsewhere in NEWSWEEK, reports on "the men who run the parties."  The city of Bristol lives in the history of politics. In 1780 its mercantile group decided to defeat Edmund Burke, its representative in Parliament. It is not especially relevant to note that on the issues which created their opposition—namely, the American colonies and Ireland—Burke was proved to be magnificently correct. More relevant it is that in a speech he made before the election he said that, while the member owed much to his constituents, he must put the national interest over their selfish interests, and that only through strong national parties could freedom be sustained.  These two principles are definitely established in British politics. The member and the candidate look to the high command of the party rather than to their constituents for guidance on policy.  With these points in mind, I have sought on this visit to study the party in the constituencies. In my article last week, I noted my observations concerning the Prime Minister's home constituency of Warwick, Leamington, and Kenilworth, the big regional Conservative office in Birmingham, and the Conservative fight to win the marginal seat at Rugby. Next, I journeyed to the constituency of Chippenham, which stretches 25 miles from east to west and contains two or three fair-size towns and a most attractive countryside.  **Electoral Lubricant:** The Conservative agent there is Brig. J.A. Mellsop, who retired from the regular army after twenty years' service. He is responsible not strictly to the member from Chippenham, but to the head office of the party in London. During the campaign he has five or six paid employees, but most of his department heads and a great many workers are volunteers. Everything is governed by written orders from Mellsop. His area of operation comprises 90 voting districts, and he must create and energize a committee with a chairman and volunteer workers in each. These distribute and mail party literature, but their most important task is the canvass, the basic element in an election campaign. Workers carry with them lists of the qualified voters and after an interview register thereon the preference of the voter. Early in the campaign, those who will need to vote by mail are identified. If they are Conservative, it is the job of the agent to see that they file the necessary paper for a ballot. On election day the Mellsop organization must see to it that every Conservative in the constituency votes.  Mellsop must also schedule six or eight daily appearances of his candidate at designated spots and an equal number for the candidate's wife. The Chippenham member is Sir David Eccles, Minister of Education. The brigadier only has $2,400 to spend in the campaign.   In Bristol, I confined my attention to the Labor Party. The secretary of the borough Labor Party is W.J. Waring, who presides over six constituencies, four of which are safely Labor. He is secretary of the Bristol Trade Union Council. He is also an elected member of the Borough Council.  **Miserable Wages:** Compared with the average Conservative constituency headquarters, Labor suffers from stark poverty. Their offices are usually in dingy, inexpensive quarters. Their employees are few and poorly paid. At least 80 per cent of the money necessary to run the Labor Party comes from the unions. The sums collected from union members are miserably small. And the difficulty of recruiting party members outside the unions is shown by the fact that while 140,000 votes were cast here in 1951 for Labor candidates, there are only 8,000 additional party members. A constituency agent whose operation I witnessed gets only $25 a week. He is a skilled engineer and could, if he left his party work, earn twice that. Waring himself…  Newsweek Here's a text version of the provided image.  Note that due to the image quality and two-column layout, some minor inaccuracies may be present.  **Perspective** *Registered U.S. Patent Office*  **Lessons for Americans** *by Raymond Moley*  LONDON—The monumental sweep of the Conservatives in the British general election offers many forceful lessons for American political parties, for our politically active labor unions, and for Americans generally. The plain facts revealed can scarcely be argued. Americans should abandon many of their political phantoms and fallacies.  The liberal wing of the Democratic Party should note the great similarity between its arguments and the now discredited appeals of the British socialists. Both promise greater spending for social services, housing, and educational novelties. Both would find new taxes from the rich and from business. Both offer the Keynesian theory of multiplying production by government spending. In this, Gaitskell and most American liberal politicians and economists offer the same false elixir. The British socialists and American liberals are simply offering the antiquated concepts of the 1930s. The British electorate, weary of these ideas, rejected them and their sponsors.  **LOCAL ORGANIZATION**  The political labor unions in America and the British socialists alike encourage a class division—the rich and big business against the poor. This class appeal utterly failed in this election. The great and growing middle group, who are a majority in both countries, want no class struggle. Both British and American workers are coming to scorn the idea that they are a class apart.  Republicans and conservative Democrats should stop trying to outpromise liberal Democrats. This only produces apathy, which keeps their potential voters at home on election day. We should have learned that in 1948. The British Conservatives waste no time trying to argue with committed socialists. They get their own potential voters to vote.  The Conservatives fought hard and hit hard. A soft appeal tranquilizes. There must be a definable choice. Hard hitting produces excitement and a big vote. And it was proved here that a big vote is a solidly conservative, not a radical, vote.  Most important is the need of Republicans and conservative Democrats for strong, active local organization. In Britain much of the power that has brought victory in three elections and a great gain in four has come from the efficient party organization built up by Lord Woolton and Churchill more than ten years ago after a great defeat. Its high efficiency has been kept up since. It is based on the fact that elections are won in many local areas, not on a mythical national level. The big factor in Conservative organization is the agent, who is professionally trained over a period of a year or eighteen months and who works the year around.  **WORK OF AGENTS**  Realizing the importance of the local areas from my experience in covering the elections of 1950 and 1955, I neglected London this time and spent the last week in the Birmingham area, which comprises 58 constituencies. The party machinery centers in a Birmingham area office, which advises the agents in the constituencies or divisions. The agents are dedicated to maintaining party vigor in the years between elections. When an election campaign comes, they have complete records of the individual voters. Then they manage things, using many volunteers. In three constituencies which I visited, a Conservative candidate defeated a Labor member. In one case the Conservative candidate was unimpressive but the agent was excellent.  The public-opinion polls, despite their wide publicity, did badly. There were so many pollees who answered “don’t know” that the percentages of preferences were meaningless. The election proved that the “don’t knows” were really “won’t tells.” As the sophistication of voters increases, the polling business will meet more and more terrible fiascoes.  Television was in full blast for the first time in this election. It ran a poor second to the old-fashioned local meetings with face-to-face heckling. There were many of what the British call “switch-offs.” Macmillan, however, made many votes by his last, short personal appeal based upon high idealism and the pride of the British people.  *Newsweek, October 26, 1959*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Perspective Registered Two Views of by RAYMOND HEN two such authentic leaders Was James B. Conant and Dwight D. Eisenhower publish essentially the same message, Americans may well note and consider its implications. The Harvard president’s major concern is “Education in a Divided World.” Eisenhower’s is the chronicle of a great war. But in both cases the for- ward look is to a divided world, Amer- ica’s place in it, and the need for intellectual and economic as well as military preparedness. Without discounting the danger of unpremeditated war, both men reject out of hand the notion of a “pre- ventive” war, which would not prevent but would pre- cipitate chaos. Both appraise the leaders of the Kremlin as essentially different from the Nazi apostles of military aggression. Eisenhower, by implication, and Conant, more positively, doubt that war will come in the foreseeable future —barring an accident. The Marxist, Conant points out, believes the next war must be civil war. Meanwhile, there will continue that icy status of mutual fear, dislike, and subtle pressure described in Commu- nist terms as “no peace, no war.” There will be little relief in this strained relationship, for the devout Communist believes destiny is his. Russian power must not be mistaken for a mere revival of nineteenth-cen- tury nationalism or pan-Slavism; it is, rather, a thoroughly indoctrinated pop- ulation burning with an ideological zeal which only efficient mass educa- tion can achieve after three decades of unremitting discipline. oTH Conant and Eisenhower agree B on armed strength as a warning to those Communists whose respect extended only to power, although the scientist differs somewhat from the general in the exact nature of military preparedness. It should be noted that these presi- dents of great universities both stress— Conant in his book and Eisenhower in his Columbia University inaugural address—the vast importance of in- cluding the study of the Russian economic, political, and social system in our educational programs. U.S. Patent Office a Divided World The hope of Conant, the scientist. is in change and the irresistible pressure of facts. If the Marxist thesis of the dire fate of non-Communist countries ideology may be torn apart from with- in. Hope for this, incidental- ly, has already appeared in the apostasy of Russian leaders like Varga, who was punished for saying that America was not likely to col- lapse so soon as the Proph- et had ordered. This possible victory, both MOLEY is can be frustrated—if a depression can be avoided here and if living stand- ards can continue to rise with greatey and greater equality of opportunity— the massive structure writers of Communist declare, can come only as we maintain the stability, productivity, and promise of our own civilization. “Physi- cal means and skillful organization,” says Eisenhower, “may see [democ- racy] safely through a crisis, but only if basically the democracy of our day satisfies the mental, moral, and physi- cal wants of the masses living under it can it continue to exist.” On this point, Conant presents his six goals of our system: “(1) The con- tinuation of a form of government based on free elections and free ex- pression of opinion. (2) A continua- tion of the many relatively independ- ent government units, towns, cities, states, and the Federal government— a flexible though complex system which allows for the maximum of ‘home rule.’ (3) A much greater de- gree of honesty and efficiency in all these governmental units. (4) The continuation of our highly competitive economic system with its wide diver- gency of pecuniary rewards. (5) A greater degree of mobility and fluidity and a lesser degree of social distinc- tion between occupational groups. (6) A greater degree of equality of oppor- tunity for the youth of each succeed- ing generation.” uR job is most difficult because it QO is in essence a compromise. It seeks equality of opportunity through the wise use of government, while it must avoid the stifling of initiative through too much government. That compromise at home must be the basis of permanence in a divided world. —— Newsweek, December 6, 19%
